AdvertisementSupported byAfter my father died, I decided the best way to grieve was with a camera.By Shaina FeinbergMs. Feinberg is a writer and director. After the initial shock of my dad’s death wore off, I found myself glued to Google. I Googled how long it takes for a body to decompose (you don’t want to know). I Googled the symptoms of grief (depression, loss of appetite, insomnia). I even Googled how many people get killed by falling coconuts each year. (I read somewhere that it’s 150 worldwide, but that could be an urban legend.) I don’t know why I Googled that. My dad’s death wasn’t coconut related.Then I Googled which movies to watch when you grieve.I have always found movies comforting. I have spent my life hunkering down with them: They’ve gotten me through breakups, awkward phases and most of my pregnancy. Movies are a perfect container for feelings. Which is probably why I started making them in the first place.When I looked up what movies to watch when you grieve, a very long list of mainstream movies came up: “Rocky,” “Steel Magnolias,” “Marley and Me,” “Gravity.” But I didn’t want to watch a movie set in space, and I definitely didn’t want to watch a movie where a dog dies. I’m pretty sure that’s what happens in “Marley and Me.”I decided I needed to make my own movie about grief. I called my mom to tell her the news.“I’m making a movie about Dad dying,” I said.“Like a revenge movie?”“No,” I said.My father died of a stroke. How could I possibly make a revenge movie about that? Someone would have to play the stroke. Which, once I thought about it, wasn’t a terrible idea. Curious about whom I might cast as the stroke, I asked my mom.My mom thought about it for a moment and then said: “Idris Elba. I love Idris Elba.”“You don’t think Idris Elba is too sexy?” I asked.“He is sexy,” she said. Then she paused for a very long time. “But not too sexy. He’s smart, too,” she added. And then she said, “And gorgeous.”It was settled, then. If I were to make a revenge movie about my dad’s death, Idris Elba would play the sexy, smart, gorgeous stroke that I had to pursue to set things right. It was starting to sound like a Liam Neeson vehicle. Maybe I could get Liam Neeson to play me.The longer I thought about this idea, the less it appealed. The logistics alone. How would I, on a microbudget, coordinate with this A-list talent? I called my mom again.“I’m not making a revenge movie. I want to make a movie about my feelings.”“Oh,” she said. “Hmm.”Feelings have never been my mom’s thing. She’d rather clean the bathroom than talk about feelings. When my dad died and the coroner came, I could see two rooms from where I stood; One was the bedroom, where my dad lay dead, the other was the family room, where my mom tidied. My nephew Jacob pulled out his phone and read the mourner’s Kaddish while we watched the coroner put a toe tag on my dad and wheel him out on a cart. As they did that, my mom straightened pictures on the wall and moved a coffee table a few feet to the right.I stood by the front door and waited for the elevator to come to take my dad away. When he was gone, my mom asked if we could help her clean up the bedroom. We said yes, of course. But, I said, first we need to have a drink and a chat about our feelings. It’s what my dad would have done.When I was a kid, it was my dad who’d sit up with me in the middle of the night to talk. According to my dad, who was a psychotherapist, feelings were complicated and sometimes they were elliptical, meaning they didn’t always make sense.Five months after my dad died, I started shooting the movie. I decided I’d use old footage that I had of him interwoven with new footage of me grieving in myriad ways. I was grieving at a dinner party, in the woods, in a loft, in a pickup truck, in bed. My mom was in the movie, too. I felt good when I was shooting. Productive! Like my grief was useful.At one point I lay splat on the kitchen floor moaning, while I instructed my mom to cut mushrooms. From the cold kitchen floor, I directed my mom to do less.“Do less?” she asked. “If I do any less, I’ll be dead.”“Let me see what that looks like,” I said.So she did. She hung over the kitchen counter like a wilting plant, barely alert, chopping mushrooms. I turned to look up at her. “Perfect,” I said.Eight months after my dad died, I finished shooting my movie. I spent the next few months editing it with my husband. At times, he would just want a night off from editing, but the nights off were harder for me. Working on it, reviewing the footage, tweaking things — that’s what made me feel good. As if somehow making this movie would get me my dad back.It’s not the way everyone would mourn. But in making the movie, which I called “Senior Escort Service,” I figured out how to keep my dad in my life almost every day that first year. I also figured out how to say goodbye.On the one-year anniversary of his death, I showed the movie to my mom. She laughed at all of her parts and teared up a few times. When it was over she said, “It’s cute!”“Cute?” I said. “You laughed! You cried! What more would you want from a movie?”“A little Idris wouldn’t have hurt.”Shaina Feinberg is a filmmaker.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement