AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnBen Affleck and Oscar Isaac lead the cast of a new heist movie on Netflix. And Helen Mirren plays a famous, troubled widow in “Winchester.”TRIPLE FRONTIER (2019) Stream on Netflix. Action comes with a side of self-righteousness in this heist movie, directed by J. C. Chandor (“All Is Lost,” “A Most Violent Year”). It pits a gang of burly American veterans (played by Ben Affleck, Oscar Isaac and a few others) against a drug lord (Rey Gallegos) and his cronies. The vets are after a stash of drug money. The movie — like a militarized “Ocean’s Eleven” — follows them as they plan and execute an infiltration of the narcotics guys’ forest lair. That it doesn’t go exactly as planned is about as unsurprising as the fact that most of the macho fighters have facial hair. In her review for The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the film a “slickly enjoyable, bankrupt take on a fail-safe formula.”WINCHESTER (2018) 6:15 p.m. on Showtime 2. Whether the creaky, century-old Northern California mansion that Sarah Winchester, the heiress to the Winchester Repeating Arms fortune, had built is actually haunted by the spirits of those killed by Winchester rifles has been a matter of debate for generations. But the twisting halls of that weird old home have for years been roamed by at least one collection of restless souls: tourists who want to be spooked. The real Winchester Mystery House in San Jose, Calif., was used as a filming location for this fact-bending thriller, based on Winchester’s later years. Helen Mirren plays Winchester as a widow whose decades-long home-building project reflects her troubled mental state. Jason Clarke portrays a psychologist hired to help her. Those familiar with the story might appreciate seeing a local legend come to life. Viewers simply looking for a good scary movie, however, may leave unsatiated. In her review for The Times, Jeannette Catsoulis wrote that “despite the typically elevating presence of Helen Mirren, this super-silly feature (the fifth from the Australian brothers Peter and Michael Spierig) stubbornly resists being classed up.”LOVE & BASKETBALL (2000) 5:35 p.m. on BET. A far less gloomy California tale is the focus of this romance movie, which was the directorial debut of Gina Prince-Bythewood. It charts a relationship between two basketball players whose preadolescent Los Angeles friendship eventually blossoms — along with the potential of their basketball careers — into more.EPIC YELLOWSTONE 8 p.m. on Smithsonian Channel. Bill Pullman hosts this nature series about the beautiful and treacherous home that Yellowstone National Park makes for the many species there. “Fire and Ice,” the episode showing on Wednesday, focuses on winter. The episode’s title should not be confused with George R. R. Martin’s fantasy book series “A Song of Ice and Fire,” the source material for “Game of Thrones” — though the calculated ways one bobcat hunts its prey here could give Martin’s characters a run for their money.Advertisement