AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe Cohn“For the People” returns to ABC. And prep for “Captain Marvel” with a DC competitor, “Wonder Woman,” on HBO Signature.FOR THE PEOPLE 10 p.m. on ABC. What does justice look like for a swatter? The swatting phenomenon, in which video game players lure SWAT teams to one another’s doorsteps with false emergency calls, is partly the subject of this legal drama’s Season 2 premiere. Allison Adams (Jasmin Savoy Brown), a lawyer and one of the legal whippersnappers introduced in the first season, is defending a teenager whose SWAT prank leads to the death of a senator. The series at large, created by Paul William Davies (a writer for “Scandal”), gives a multidimensional view of fictitious lawyers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. It follows their cases and sex lives with equal gusto.WONDER WOMAN (2017) 6:35 p.m. on HBO Signature. When the Brie Larson-led superhero origin story “Captain Marvel” is released on Friday, it will be in good company thanks to this DC-Warner Bros. adventure, which broke a superhero glass ceiling last year by being the first movie in the genre in over a decade to be led by a woman. Gal Gadot stars as the Amazonian princess-turned-superwoman; how that transformation happens is the focus here. (It involves World War I, a spy played by Chris Pine and one very cool sword.) In his review for The New York Times, A. O. Scott wrote that the film “feels less like yet another installment in an endless sequence of apocalyptic merchandising opportunities than like … what’s the word I’m looking for? A movie. A pretty good one, too.”IRON MAN (2008) Rent on Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. The above pairing of “Captain Marvel” with the rival DC Comics-born “Wonder Woman” might be considered treason by loyalists to the Marvel Cinematic Universe — that ever-ballooning franchise of superhero movies that includes Marvel and Disney collaborations like “Captain Marvel,” “The Avengers,” “Guardians of the Galaxy” and “Black Panther.” To stick within the Marvel world, revisit “Iron Man,” the first entry in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The movie was hardly a modest beginning; “Iron Man” represented not only the explosive start of the film franchise but also the revival of Robert Downey Jr.’s acting career. He stars here as the rich playboy Tony Stark (and, soon enough, Iron Man) alongside Gwyneth Paltrow and Jeff Bridges. It begins with a kidnapping in Afghanistan, where Stark is showing off defense technology to the United States military.W. (2008) Stream on  Hulu and Netflix; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. Here’s an interesting double feature: pair the war-on-terror-focused “Iron Man” with this Oliver Stone George W. Bush biopic, another relic of late-Bush-era America. An origin story that vacillates between sendup and appraisal, the film follows Bush (Josh Brolin) from his Yale days through the earlier years of his presidency. In her review for The Times, Manohla Dargis called the movie “queasily enjoyable.”Advertisement