AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleWho are your favorite superheroes? Are any of them female?Does the gender of a comic character matter? Why or why not?In “Can ‘Captain Marvel’ Fix Marvel’s Woman Problem?,” Dave Itzkoff writes:When “Captain Marvel” opens next Friday, it will be a moment of great satisfaction mixed with lingering frustration.The film, which stars Brie Larson as that spacefaring comic-book superhero, is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008 but only the first to focus principally on a woman.By now, audiences have grown accustomed to superhero movies that put women in the spotlight. In 2017, “Wonder Woman,” based on DC Comics’ Amazonian warrior, was a worldwide hit for Warner Bros.Marvel has built its own fortunes on a decades-old supply of costumed adventurers that doesn’t lack for women. And the studio has been criticized for its slowness to create movies emphasizing its female characters.So what took Marvel as long as it did to reach this point? And will “Captain Marvel” be the movie that makes good on this long unfulfilled potential?The article concludes:It’s unclear whether “Captain Marvel” will be the start of a trend or an outlier for Marvel. Hollywood trade publications have reported that the studio is preparing other female-led projects, including a Black Widow movie, starring Johansson and directed by Cate Shortland (“Lore”), and a film adaptation of the Eternals, directed by Chloé Zhao (“The Rider”). But Disney said it could not confirm Marvel’s development slate.Whether “Captain Marvel” can be a harbinger for other movies like it, Larson said, “is a larger question, a systemic thing.”“That change is scary,” she said, “and it takes time for it to come. It’s slow but it’s happening.”The only way such progress can happen, Larson said, is if she and her peers use the influence afforded by movies like “Captain Marvel” to strive for further changes and to make them permanent.“Part of why I’m pushing really hard now is because I do have a little bit of power, and I’m going to use it,” she said. “You don’t know when it’s going to shift again or who’s going to have the power next. But I’ll push it as far as I can. Because it’s the right thing to do.”Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Do we need more female superheroes? Does the gender of a superhero matter?— Heidi MacDonald, editor of The Beat, a comics culture website, said of Stan Lee, the longtime editor of Marvel Comics:“You can’t help but think that if Stan Lee wasn’t a conscious sexist, he certainly was so traditional. He gave his female characters the weakest powers — ‘Oh, I can get very small.’ ‘I can turn invisible.’ ‘I can move a teacup with my mind.’”Does Marvel Comics have a “woman problem?” How well do you think women and female superheroes have been depicted in Marvel films? Do you think the success of Captain Marvel might lead to a trend of female superheroes in featured roles?— Who is your favorite among female superheroes? What characteristics make them most compelling to you? Tell us why.— Which female superhero would you like to see featured in a movie? Write the opening to a pitch to Hollywood executives to greenlight this film.— Will you see Captain Marvel when it opens on Friday?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement