AdvertisementSupported byBy Manohla DargisThe tough-guy chatter and feelings in “Triple Frontier” are somewhat more rarefied than in the usual grunting action flick. That’s the idea, at any rate, in this slickly enjoyable, bankrupt take on a fail-safe formula, one that celebrates an ethos even more enduring than patriotism: old-fashioned American greed. And so, once again, rugged he-men with sensational skills, character arcs and Michelangelo musculature set off on a mission deemed impossible. Tom Cruise’s career suggests that these operations are entirely possible, as does every other movie about rakish charmers facing hopeless odds.Sometimes these prickly and smooth charmers are ex-cons; on occasion they’re soldiers (“The Dirty Dozen”) or veterans (the original “Ocean’s Eleven”). Their mission takes different forms but is generally goal-oriented whether the objective is sabotage or a fat payout. The American vets in “Triple Frontier” come in the usual flavors, including a gruff top dog, faithful second in command, wild card and so on. All are easy on the eyes. The top dog delivers a St. Crispin’s Day-style throat-catcher and as usual tells the recruits they’re free to leave, no hard feelings. No one does. Then it’s game on with guns and ammo, followed by squabbles, screw-ups and a terrible sacrifice — honorable, of course.The director J.C. Chandor sells used goods with verve. (His movies include the superior “All Is Lost.”) “Triple Frontier” takes off with a banging overture loaded with the familiar sights and sounds of a phalanx of police vehicles breaching enemy lines, a helicopter swooping overhead. In a generic country that I’ll call South Americaville, the police descend on a drug-gang lair and bad guys and good point, shoot, fall, die amid a hailstorm of bullets that’s topped by a cataclysmic explosion. After the smoke clears, the cool American number apparently running the show, Santiago (Oscar Isaac), turns his back on the police who summarily execute detainees, suggesting that he isn’t the story’s heavy.No one is here except the generic drug lord (Rey Gallegos) who’s in Santiago’s sightlines because, well, drug lords are evil. In the fairy-tale world of action movies, even one that pretends it has a few ideas, malevolence is often a matter of individual bad agents rather than of, say, countries, politics and policies. So, the drug lord is bad, as are at least some on the police force in South Americaville. Santiago and his United States cohort, by contrast, are good and unfailingly patriotic, yet they’re also struggling back home in the civilian world. Tom (Ben Affleck) is a commander turned failing real estate agent in dad pants; the sensitive Ben (Garrett Hedlund) gets smacked around in wrestling cages.After the slamming opener, the movie’s worldview becomes clearer. Santiago seems to be some kind of freelance military adviser for the South Americaville police (or military, whatever). The title refers to the border shared by Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay; I believe there’s a border sign for Brazil in one scene. But the country is really just an attractive, putatively exotic backdrop and as generic as it is in most mindless action blowouts. The difference is that this movie tries to rationalize both its violence and its characters’ behavior, which shifts dramatically when Santiago suggests that he and his buddies rob the drug lord, who’s bunkered in an Amazonian Fort Knox.Chandor handles the action scenes smoothly, making it easy to gloss over what the movie is saying, trying to say or accidentally saying. He maintains the kind of accelerated pace that gives your eyes a workout, and pads the story with an inviting camaraderie that brings you into the group. He also lays on texturizing details, like the Glock pistol logo worn by William (Charlie Hunnam), another member of this soulful brotherhood. Pedro Pascal plays the fifth member, the helicopter pilot tasked with the getaway, so all in all they’re fairly irresistible. And then Santiago appeals to their avarice, souring things. After fighting for the flag for years, he says, they have “nothing to show for it.”The other guys react with the requisite hemming and hawing; someone probably scuffs his boot in the dirt. These are, after all, honorable men, or so the movie repeatedly insists, despite the mounting evidence to the contrary. (They’re thieves.) Working from a script that he rewrote, Chandor struggles to make the story’s contradictions gel. They never do. (The original is by Mark Boal, who’s best known for his collaborations with Kathryn Bigelow.) That’s the case even when the other unsurprising villain emerges, its entrance underscored by Bob Dylan’s Vietnam-era song “Masters of War” that revs up on the soundtrack to point a singular damning finger: “You put a gun in my hand.”Movie data powered by IMDb.comTriple FrontierRated R for action-movie violence, mostly involving guns. In English, Spanish and Portuguese, with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes. The movie arrives on Netflix on March 13.Advertisement