AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnKiernan Shipka and Stanley Tucci star in a new Netflix horror movie. And “The Girl on the Train” airs on FX.THE SILENCE (2019) Stream on Netflix. Bloodthirsty, apocalypse-inducing creatures who hunt by sound. A family thrown into survival mode, with a daughter who is deaf. Sound familiar? This sensory-deprivation horror movie is bound to draw comparisons to “A Quiet Place,” John Krasinski’s directorial breakthrough that drew praise last year for its portrayal of family drama under terrifying circumstances. “The Silence,” based on a 2015 novel, also imagines a world transformed by sound-sensitive people-killers. Kiernan Shipka, who plays the title character in Netflix’s “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” stars in this film as Ally, a teenager whose family learns sign language after an accident leaves Ally unable to hear. That form of communication takes on a new usefulness when the world is hit with a winged pestilence: batlike creatures attracted to noise and flesh. Miranda Otto, who plays one of Sabrina’s aunts in “Sabrina,” here plays Ally’s mother (presumably coincidentally); Stanley Tucci plays Ally’s father.FINDING YOUR FEET (2018) Stream on Amazon and Hulu; Rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Imelda Staunton and Celia Imrie star as estranged sisters in this romantic comedy. Staunton plays Sandra, a suburbanite who, after discovering that her husband is having an affair, moves in with her more freewheeling sister (Imrie). There, she finds freedom via smoking marijuana and beginning a new romance with a retiree played by Timothy Spall. In her review for The New York Times, Jeannette Catsoulis wrote that the movie has “an embarrassingly on-the-nose soundtrack and plot twists you can see coming without your bifocals.” Still, she called it “comfort food for the young at heart.”GREAT PERFORMANCES: JULIUS CAESAR Stream on PBS.org. Phyllida Lloyd’s assertive all-female production of “Julius Caesar” began what became an acclaimed trilogy of productions born at the Donmar Warehouse in London, all of which imagine Shakespeare plays staged by inmates in a women’s prison. In a review for The Times after this production’s premiere in 2013, Matt Wolf asked, “Who would have guessed that the London production currently boasting the greatest testosterone also happens not to have a single man in its cast?” In a Times review after the production had transferred to New York, Ben Brantley wrote that Lloyd’s staging “has a muscular strength and ferocity guaranteed to keep everyone in the theater in sustained fight-or-flight mode.” In this film of the live play, Harriet Walter stars as Brutus, with Jackie Clune (Caesar), Martina Laird (Cassius) and Jade Anouka (Mark Antony).THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN (2016) 5:30 p.m. on FX. Paula Hawkins was an unknown author before her 2015 mystery novel, “The Girl on the Train,” skipped its way to the top of the New York Times best-seller list. The following year, Emily Blunt starred in this movie version, directed by Tate Taylor. Like the book, the film dances between different perspectives in telling the story of the disappearance of the lady on the rail car.Advertisement