AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnJonah Hill’s directorial debut hits Amazon. And Mila Kunis, Kathryn Hahn and Kristen Bell star in “Bad Moms,” on FX.MID90S (2018) Stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. A “Street Fighter II” T-shirt. CDs by the Brooklyn hip-hop duo Gang Starr. A straight-to-tape Sony camcorder. This directorial debut from Jonah Hill doubles as an exhibition of artifacts from a skateboarders’ slice of 1990s California culture, bottling up the feeling of that time and place through the eyes of a young protagonist. That would be Stevie (Sunny Suljic), a 13-year-old in Los Angeles who starts hanging out with a group of older skaters. Structured loosely as, well, a day in the life of a young person skating with friends, the movie follows Stevie as he rides, smokes and roughhouses his way into teenage life, ricocheting (emotionally and physically) off his troubled older brother (Lucas Hedges) and transforming before the eyes of his mother (Katherine Waterston). In his review for The New York Times, A. O. Scott wrote that, “Like its hero, ‘Mid90s’ struggles to figure out what it wants to be, and the struggle makes it interesting as well as occasionally frustrating.”LORDS OF DOGTOWN (2005) Stream on Amazon and Crackle; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. This movie is a fictionalized account of the maturation of skateboarding, centered on the mid-70s skating boom in Los Angeles. Heath Ledger plays Skip Engblom, a figure behind a Santa Monica surfboard shop that was key to skating’s popularity; Emile Hirsch plays a member of a crew that starts there. The movie was written by the pioneering skater Stacy Peralta, and directed by Catherine Hardwicke. A. O. Scott noted in his review for The Times that Hardwicke and Peralta share “an enthusiastic interest in young people that is neither condescending nor exploitative.” And he wrote that their movie “from start to finish, is pretty much a blast.”OVERBOARD (2018) Stream on Amazon and Hulu; rent on Amazon. A gender-swapped take on the 1987 Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell comedy “Overboard,” this movie stars Anna Faris as a single mom who convinces a wealthy, snotty and, after a yacht-related incident, amnesiac playboy (Eugenio Derbez) that he’s her husband. Lighthearted by design, “this remake actually makes the innocuous original look edgy by comparison,” wrote Glenn Kenny in his review for The Times. To compare, see OVERBOARD (1987), at 10 p.m. on Paramount Network.BAD MOMS (2016) 8 p.m. on FX. Mila Kunis, Kathryn Hahn and Kristen Bell play Amy, Carla and Kiki, a group of freewheeling moms pushing back against bad husbands and P.T.A. politics, in this comedy from the “Hangover” writers Jon Lucas and Scott Moore. “What makes ‘Bad Moms’ funny (aside from its lineup of gifted performers) isn’t that Amy and her friends go wild; they don’t, not even close,” Manohla Dargis wrote in her review for The Times. “It’s the women’s shared, near-orgiastic pleasure in their freedom and friendship.”Advertisement