AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiWatch Jason Statham confront a massive whale in “The Meg.” Or catch a Mötley Crüe biopic on Netflix.THE MEG (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; Stream on HBO platforms; Rent on Google Play, Vudu or YouTube. When the trailer for this blockbuster was released last year, it gave the impression of an ironic B-movie in the vein of “Sharknado.” Loosely based on the 1997 novel “Meg” by Steve Alten, it follows a rescue diver (Jason Statham) who’s called on to save a crew of scientists trapped in a deep-sea submersible from a 75-foot prehistoric shark. When the film landed on the big screen, it shattered box office expectations but most critics gave it scathing reviews. Variety said the movie is “‘Jaws’ on dumbed-down steroids.” The Hollywood Reporter called it “generically derivative.” And in her review for The New York Times, Jeannette Catsoulis wrote, “The movie feeds us bite-sized, subtitle-friendly dialogue, finger-puppet characters and a string of brainless set pieces masquerading as a plot.” If there’s anything to hang onto, it’s shots of Statham’s impressive swimming skills, such as this scene where he channels Dory from “Finding Nemo.”WORLD FIGURE SKATING CHAMPIONSHIPS 8 p.m. on NBC. NBC airs the final programs of this year’s competition, taking place in Saitama, Japan. The player to watch is Nathan Chen, who, at 19, is a freshman student at Yale and the defending world champion. If he comes out on top in the men’s field, he will become the first American man to win back-to-back world titles since Scott Hamilton earned four consecutive championships from 1981 to 1984.2019 NICKELODEON KIDS’ CHOICE AWARDS 8 p.m. on Nickelodeon. DJ Khaled hosts this annual awards show live from Los Angeles. Among the stars attending, and potentially getting drenched in slime, are Chris Pratt (nominated for favorite “butt-kicker” for his role in “Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom”) and Ariana Grande (her song “Thank U, Next” is also in the running for an orange blimp).FUNNY WOMEN OF A CERTAIN AGE (2019)9 p.m. on Showtime. Five female comics over the age of 50 perform stand-up on past relationships, aging and sex in this new special. Fran Drescher (“The Nanny”) headlines while Carole Montgomery hosts. Some of the jokes, which are too raunchy to retell here, are aimed at younger women in the crowd — not so much as advice but as warnings on what to expect as the years go by. Depending on your sense of humor, they will leave you cackling or mortified. Or both.THE DIRT (2019) Stream on Netflix. Move over Queen, it’s Mötley Crüe’s turn. This in-your-face biopic, adapted from the heavy metal band’s 2001 memoir, holds very little back. Directed by Jeff Tremaine (“Bad Grandpa,” “Jackass: The Movie”) and starring Machine Gun Kelly, Douglas Booth, Daniel Webber and Iwan Rheon (“Game of Thrones”), the movie covers the group’s internal tensions but focuses more on the members’ antics: substance abuse, extreme recklessness and sexuality that would not have gone unnoticed in the #MeToo era.Advertisement