In many Oscar bait movies, interracial friendships come with a paycheck, and follow the white character’s journey to enlightenment.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Delphine Diallo for The New York Times; Universal Pictures, STX Films, Warner Bros. DreamWorks Pictures (Film stills)Supported byBy Wesley Morris“Driving Miss Daisy” is the sort of movie you know before you see it. The whole thing is right there in the poster. White Jessica Tandy is giving black Morgan Freeman a stern look, and he looks amused by her sternness. They’re framed in a rearview mirror, which occupies only about 20 percent of the space. You can make out his chauffeur’s cap and that she’s in the back seat. The rest is three actors’ names, a tag line, a title, tiny credits, and white space.That rearview-mirror image isn’t a still from the movie but a warmly painted rendering of one, this vague nuzzling of Norman Rockwell Americana. And its warmth evokes a very particular past. If you’ve ever seen the packaging for Cream of Wheat or a certain brand of rice, if you’ve even seen some Shirley Temple movies, you knew how Miss Daisy would be driven: gladly.[Read about the best and worst moments of the Oscars | Read Spike Lee’s passionate acceptance speech.]As movie posters go, it’s ingeniously concise. But whoever designed it knew the concision was possible because we’d know the shorthand of an eternal racial dynamic. I got off the subway last month and saw a billboard of black Kevin Hart riding on the back of white Bryan Cranston’s motorized wheelchair. They’re both ecstatic. And maybe they’re obligated to be. Their movie is called “The Upside.” A few months before that, I was out getting a coffee when I saw a long, sexy billboard of white Viggo Mortensen driving black Mahershala Ali in a minty blue car for a movie called “Green Book.”Not knowing what these movies were “about” didn’t mean it wasn’t clear what they were about. They symbolize a style of American storytelling in which the wheels of interracial friendship are greased by employment, in which prolonged exposure to the black half of the duo enhances the humanity of his white, frequently racist counterpart. All the optimism of racial progress — from desegregation to integration to equality to something like true companionship — is stipulated by terms of service. Thirty years separate “Driving Miss Daisy” from these two new films, but how much time has passed, really? The bond in all three is conditionally transactional, possible only if it’s mediated by money. “The Upside” has the rich, quadriplegic author Phillip Lacasse (Cranston) hire an ex-con named Dell Scott (Hart) to be his “life auxiliary.” “Green Book” reverses the races so that some white muscle (Mortensen) drives the black pianist Don Shirley (Ali) to gigs throughout the Deep South in the 1960s. It’s “The Upside Down.”[Read The New York Times review of “Green Book.”]These pay-for-playmate transactions are a modern pastime, different from an entire history of popular culture that simply required black actors to serve white stars without even the illusion of friendship. It was really only possible in a post-integration America, possible after Sidney Poitier made black stardom loosely feasible for the white studios, possible after the moral and legal adjustments won during the civil rights movements, possible after the political recriminations of the black power and blaxploitation eras let black people regularly frolic among themselves for the first time since the invention of the Hollywood movie. Possible, basically, only in the 1980s, after the movements had more or less subsided and capitalism and jokey white paternalism ran wild.On television in this era, rich white sitcom families vacuumed up little black boys, on “Diff’rent Strokes,” on “Webster.” On “Diff’rent Strokes,” the adopted boys are the orphaned Harlem sons of Phillip Drummond’s maid. Not only was money supposed to lubricate racial integration; it was perhaps supposed to mitigate a history of keeping black people apart and oppressed.The sitcoms weren’t officially social experiments, but they were light advertisements for the civilizing (and alienating) benefits of white wealth on black life. The plot of “Trading Places,” from 1983, actually was an experiment, a pungent, complicated one, in which conniving white moneybags install a broke and hustling Eddie Murphy in disgraced Dan Aykroyd’s banking job. The scheme creates an accidental friendship between the duped pair and they both wind up rich.But that Daddy Warbucks paternalism was how, in 1982, the owner of the country’s most ferocious comedic imagination — Richard Pryor — went from desperate janitor to live-in amusement for the bratty son of a rotten businessman (Jackie Gleason). You have to respect the bluntness of that one. The movie was called “The Toy,” and it’s simultaneously dumb, wild and appalling. I was younger than its little white protagonist (he’s “Master” Eric Bates) when I saw it, but I can still remember the look of embarrassed panic on Pryor’s face while he’s trapped in something called the Wonder Wheel. It’s a look that never quite goes away as he’s made to dress in drag, navigate the Ku Klux Klan and make Gleason feel good about his racism and terrible parenting.These were relationships that continued the rules of the past, one in which Poitier was frequently hired to turn bigots into buddies. The rules didn’t need to be disguised by yesterday. These arrangements could flourish in the present. So maybe that was the alarming appeal of “Driving Miss Daisy.” It went there. It went back there. And people went for it. The movie came out at the end of 1989, won four Oscars (best picture, actress, adapted screenplay, makeup), got besotted reviews and made a pile of money. Why wasn’t a mystery.Any time a white person comes anywhere close to the rescue of a black person the academy is primed to say, “Good for you!,” whether it’s “To Kill a Mockingbird,” “Mississippi Burning,” “The Blind Side,” or “The Help.” The year “Driving Miss Daisy” won those Oscars, Morgan Freeman also had a supporting role in a drama (“Glory”) that placed a white Union colonel at its center and was very much in the mix that night. (Denzel Washington won his first Oscar for playing a slave-turned-Union soldier in that movie.) And Spike Lee lost the original screenplay award for “Do the Right Thing,” his masterpiece about a boiled-over pot of racial animus in Brooklyn. I was 14 then, and the political incongruity that night was impossible not to feel. “Driving Miss Daisy” and “Glory” were set in the past and the people who loved them seemed stuck there. The giddy reception for “Miss Daisy” seemed earnest. But Lee’s movie dramatized a starker truth — we couldn’t all just get along.For what it’s worth, Lee is now up for more Oscars. His film “BlacKkKlansman” has six nominations. Given the five for “Green Book,” basically so is “Driving Miss Daisy.” Which is to say that 2019 might just be 1990 all over again. And yet viewed separately from the cold shower of “Do the Right Thing,” “Driving Miss Daisy” does operate with more finesse, elegance and awareness than my teenage self wanted to see. It’s still not the best movie of 1989. But it does know the southern caste system and the premium that system placed on propriety.[Spike Lee finally won an Oscar. And his speech was worth waiting for.]The movie turns the 25-year relationship between Daisy, an elderly Jewish white widow from Atlanta, and Hoke, her elderly, widowed black driver, into both this delicate, modest, tasteful thing — a love letter, a corsage — and something amusingly perverse. Proud old prejudiced Daisy says she doesn’t want to be driven anywhere. But doesn’t she? Hoke treats her pride like a costume. He stalks her with her own new car until she succumbs and lets him drive her to the market. What passes between them feels weirdly kinky: southern-etiquette S&M.Bruce Beresford directed the movie and Alfred Uhry based it on his Pulitzer Prize-winning play, which he said was inspired by his grandmother and her chauffeur, and it does powder over the era’s upheavals, uprisings and blowups. But it doesn’t sugarcoat the history fueling the regional and national climes, either. Daisy’s fortune comes from cotton, and Hoke, with ruthless affability, keeps reminding her that she’s rich. When she says things are a-changing, he tells her not that much.Platonic love blossoms, obviously. But the movie’s one emotional gaffe would seem to come near the end when Daisy grabs Hoke’s hand and tells him so. “You’re my best friend,” she creaks. But her admission arises not from one of their little S&M drives but after a bout of dementia. And in a wide shot, he stands above her, a little stooped, halfway in, halfway out, moved yet confused. And in his posture resides an entire history of national racial awkwardness: He has to mind his composure even as she’s losing her mind.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Jessica Cheung, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Larissa AndersonWesley Morris joins us to talk about “Green Book,” the latest in a series of Oscar winners that focus on a white character’s moral journey in an interracial friendship.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Three decades ago, the Academy Awards gave its highest honor to a movie about a white passenger learning to love her black chauffeur. On Sunday night, it gave the same award to a film about a white chauffeur learning to love his black passenger. Times culture critic Wesley Morris on Hollywood’s obsession with fantasies of racial reconciliation. It’s Tuesday, February 26.archived recordingGood evening, and welcome to the one millionth Academy Awards. We are not your hosts, but we’re going to stand here a little too long so that the people who get USA Today tomorrow will think that we hosted.michael barbaroSo last night, I was watching the Academy Awards. I was struck that it was John Lewis, this congressman, but most importantly, this legendary civil rights leader, who introduced “Green Book” at the awards ceremony.archived recording (john lewis)I can bear witness that the portrait of that time and place in our history is very real.michael barbaroAnd basically endorsed it. And I haven’t seen the movie, but his stamp of approval made me think that I should have.archived recording (john lewis)Our nation bears the scars of that time, as do I. [APPLAUSE]michael barbaroAnd then after “Green Book” won best picture, later on in the evening, I’d read that Spike Lee, the black director, he walked out of the room in protest.wesley morrisYes.michael barbaroAnd that the award generated a fair amount of controversy. So my question to you is, what exactly happened here?wesley morrisO.K., well, where do you even want to start? How far back in history do you want to go?michael barbaroWherever you think we should in order to really understand this.wesley morrisOh, man. Let’s go back to 1990, which is the Oscar year for the films that came out in 1989. And you have a best-picture slate that is full of movies that we still are with in some ways.archived recordingIf you build it, he will come.wesley morris“Field of Dreams” and “Dead Poets Society.”archived recordingWe are food for worms, lads. Because believe or not, each and every one of us in this room is one day going to stop breathing.wesley morris“Born on the Fourth of July.”archived recordingPeople say, if you don’t love America, then get the hell out.wesley morrisAnd “My Left Foot,” which we don’t really talk about enough, but it made Daniel Day-Lewis a star, and gave him the first of his zillion Oscars. And —archived recording[CAR ENGINE STARTING]wesley morris“Driving Miss Daisy.”archived recordingMy mother’s a little high-strung. The fact is, you’d be working for me. She can say anything she likes, but she can’t fire you.michael barbaroAnd remind me what that film was about.wesley morris“Driving Miss Daisy“?michael barbaroYeah.wesley morris “Driving Miss Daisy.” “Driving Miss Daisy” is the story of an old Jewish lady played by Jessica Tandy, whose son insists that she’s too old to drive her car. So he hires a black guy to drive the car for her.archived recordingNow, Miss Daisy, you need a chauffeur. Lord knows I need a job. So why don’t we just leave it like that?wesley morrisHis name is Hoke. He’s played by Morgan Freeman. And over the course of, I guess it’s maybe 30 years, this professional relationship deepens into a kind of friendship.archived recording (daisy)You’re my best friend.archived recording (hoke)No, go on now, Miss Daisy. You don’t have to —archived recording (daisy)No, really. You are.wesley morrisIt is a fantasy set during Jim Crow in the South about an impossible friendship that is based in work. And that makes us feel good, because you see this prejudiced woman in a racist climate become friends with this black man who just wants to drive her around. Basically, what happened that year was that Kim Basinger at some point comes out.archived recording (kim basinger)Hello, the world. We’ve got five great films here. And they’re great for one reason, because they tell the truth. But there is one film missing from this list that deserves to be on it, because ironically, it might tell the biggest truth of all.wesley morrisAnd she says, oh, wait a minute, something’s not in this category. And it’s the movie that tells the biggest truth of all.archived recording (kim basinger)And that’s “Do the Right Thing.”michael barbaroSo Kim Basinger comes in.wesley morrisKim Basinger.michael barbaroFamous white actress, and says, something’s amiss here. “Do the Right Thing” should be nominated.wesley morrisNever met Spike Lee. She is dating Prince at this point. Spike Lee — one of Spike Lee’s favorite people on the whole planet. But I don’t think that really matters. Anyway, she comes out and says this, and it’s a controversial thing. The room is sort of unsure what to do about this.michael barbaroAnd what’s the basic plot?wesley morrisThe basic plot is —archived recordingFight the power! Fight the power!wesley morrisIt is a parable set on the hottest day of the year in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn.archived recording (speaker 1)Who told you to walk on my side of my block? Who told you to be in my neighborhood?archived recording (speaker 2)I own this brownstone.archived recording (speaker 3)Who told you to buy a brownstone on my block, in my neighborhood, on my side of the street?archived recording (speaker 4)I can’t even hear myself think!wesley morrisAnd all kinds of racial tensions bring people to converge on this pizzeria. And you just have all this tension, and things boil over. There is a melee. Someone dies at the hands of the police. Then you have a riot.archived recording (speaker 1)Doctor.archived recording (speaker 2)Come on. What?archived recording (speaker 1)Always do the right thing.wesley morrisIt’s by Spike Lee. It’s his best movie.archived recording (speaker 1)That’s it?archived recording (speaker 2)That’s it.archived recording (speaker 1)I got it, I’m gone.wesley morrisIt’s one of the greatest movies ever made in the history of American cinema.michael barbaroSo in 1990, which film ultimately wins best picture?wesley morrisMichael, I told you what they were. What do you think won?archived recordingAnd the Oscar goes to “Driving Miss Daisy“!michael barbaroAnd what does it mean that “Driving Miss Daisy” won best picture in that year?wesley morrisThat it’s the continuation of a long trend of a kind of racial reconciliation fantasy.michael barbaroAnd what does that phrase mean?wesley morrisWell, it’s this idea that you’ve got a white character who typically tends to be racist or bigoted or prejudiced or whatever. And that person is going on this journey, courtesy of this relationship to a black person who has no journey to go on, is just there to morally be a center that this white person can return to, or, like, make his or her way toward.michael barbaroAnd just to be clear, break down this word “fantasy” for me. What is the fantasy?wesley morrisThe fantasy is that prolonged exposure to a black person is going to cure you of your racism. The black person just has to sit there and take your money. And you’re basically buying a friend, who will then absolve you of every horrible thought, every racist deed you’ve ever had or done.michael barbaroAnd what does that look like? How does that fantasy, this dynamic you’re describing — how does that show up in pop culture over the next few years and maybe even decades?wesley morrisWell, let’s just skip to the ‘80s.archived recording (speaker 1)What do you give the kid who has everything?archived recording (speaker 2)Daddy said anything I wanted. Anything in the store.wesley morrisSo there’s this one movie that I remember very clearly. It’s called “The Toy.”archived recording (speaker 1)For Eric Bates, it was the only toy in his father’s store —archived recording (speaker 2)I know what I want.archived recording (speaker 1)— that wasn’t for sale.archived recording (speaker 3)What you’re offering me is not a job, sir. It’s an insult, and I’m insulted.wesley morrisRichard Pryor, who, at this point, if people were taking a poll and saying, name the greatest living comedian, Richard Pryor would probably be at the top of almost everybody’s list. He’s recruited in this movie by Jackie Gleason to be the best friend of his estranged son. Pays him money.archived recording (speaker 1)$2,000?archived recording (speaker 2)With that kind of money, if Eric blows his nose, you wipe it.wesley morrisAnd the idea is that he’s going to befriend this kid.archived recordingIf you want a friend, you don’t buy a friend. You earn a friend.wesley morrisWho is initially pretty obnoxious. Meanwhile, the guy who — Jackie Gleason’s character is a bigot and a racist, and at some point has to be taught by Richard Pryor’s character that that’s not cool, and being a father is pretty O.K., too.michael barbaroWhy would Richard Pryor take this kind of a role?wesley morrisYour guess is as good as mine. But it’s like, why does anybody take any of these roles? Because there’s nothing else for them to do if they want to be in movies. You don’t have a lot of black people writing and directing movies. Most of the people writing these shows and directing and writing these movies are white people whose ideas about black people come from popular culture that existed before the popular culture they’re making. It’s usually not coming from actual relationships with actual black people. And if it is, it’s compromised by the idea that there’s only so much that they can imagine a black person doing in the first place. So this idea of behind-the-camera representation becomes important during this period, too. But I mean, for our purposes, it’s white people imagining black people, for white people. And then in the 2000s, you have a very easy, classic example of this problem.archived recordingI got a job today writing for the Jackson Journal.wesley morrisIn a movie like “The Help,” another best picture nominee.archived recording (speaker 1)Aibileen, you spilled something.archived recording (speaker 2)Forgive me, Lord, but I’m going to have to kill that woman, Aibileen.wesley morrisAnd it is essentially the story of some maids in a southern town.archived recordingYou said to write about what disturbs me, particularly if it bothers no one else. I’d like to write something from the point of view of the help. I want to interview you.wesley morrisWho wind up being written about as an exposé.archived recording (speaker 1)I’m gonna help with your stories.archived recording (speaker 2)We all are.wesley morrisOf the poor treatment they receive at the hands of their white mistresses.archived recordingIt’s quite scandalous. Sounds like Jackson, if you ask me.wesley morrisAnd the book becomes a hit. But it then winds up imperiling the lives and the safety and comfort of the women themselves.archived recordingYou tell Aibileen, do I have plans for her. You’re a godless woman.michael barbaroAnd what is the fantasy in “The Help“?wesley morrisWell, the fantasy is that you can make the lives better for oppressed women during the Jim Crow era, in which, you know, black people were treated all kinds of horrible — death, dehumanization, any kind of inequity you can subject a person to black people faced under Jim Crow. And by writing this book, which is what the white main character of this movie does, it’s supposed to make these lives better. And the fantasy is that this woman can come in, interview these black women, they will give their stories to this white woman, who will write a book, sell a bunch of copies. And these black women are going to be left to fend for themselves. But the fantasy that this woman is allowed to have about her do-gooderness is that she actually is making a difference and is going to create a means by which these women can be treated better by the white women they work for.michael barbaroWhen in fact, in some cases, she makes it worse.wesley morrisShe makes it worse. The last shot of that movie is really kind of tragic.archived recordingMae Mobley was my last baby. In just 10 minutes, the only life I knew was done.wesley morrisIt’s just Viola Davis walking down a road — with no job, by the way.archived recordingGod says we need to love our enemies. It’s hard to do.wesley morrisIt kind of creates this sense that Emma Stone is kind of off the hook, and Viola Davis is on a hook. And the fantasy of the reconciliation is that the conscience-clearing and the act of expressing empathy or sympathy or something is enough.michael barbaroI guess I want to push you on this. Doesn’t inherently spending time with people who are different than we are make us more empathetic? And why would that be anything other than a good thing?wesley morrisThat’s a deep question. The immediate answer, though, is that it’s on the terms of white people. There’s nothing mutual about any of these movies, any of this work. It’s not mutual at all. You aren’t going into the houses and lives of these black characters. And they’re presented as so good as to have no agency. Now “The Help” sort of pushes back against that a little bit. But to be fair, I mean, if the movie works, and it works as a movie, it’s very easy to overlook a lot of these problems. A well-made movie is effective as a spell-casting mechanism, right? You know, you watch a movie like “The Help,” and you’re like, but she wrote the book. She got the truth out there about how bad it is for these maids. And what more can she do? What more do you want her to do? She did her job. I just feel like that is a great way to feel, but I’d love to see a black woman’s version of “The Help.” But I don’t think you’d ever see that, because black people don’t want to tell that story. And the other thing about these movies that’s really worth noting, especially the ones that get near the Oscars, these racial reconciliation fantasies are almost always set in the past. They’re all set during the Jim Crow-era, in the South for the most part, and involve something about the relationship between the white person and the black person being unequal, whether it’s the black person’s I.Q. in “The Green Mile” or the social standing of the black person in “The Help.” So these are movies that would say they believe in equality, but there’s nothing equal about the races in them. There’s an inherent imbalance. And the fantasy, of course, is just acknowledging that black people exist and giving them some lines and casting a good actor to play them is a kind of argument for an equality. But it’s not, if you look at the way they function within the system that the movie created for itself.michael barbaroSo lay out for me specifically how you see this racial reconciliation fantasy playing out in “Green Book.” And I haven’t seen the movie, so keep that in mind.wesley morrisYou’re in for a treat, my friend. So here we are in 2019, and just imagine all this progress in 30 years. So this is the year where the movies have just never been blacker, and the black movies you get have never been this good, right, as a class of movies. You’ve got a movie like “Blindspotting,” “Sorry to Bother You,” “Black Panther,” “BlacKkKlansman.” You’ve got “If Beale Street Could Talk.” You’ve got “Widows.” this is coming a year after “Get Out” was a hit. And that’s coming a year after “Moonlight” won best picture.michael barbaroAll having major black protagonists.wesley morrisMajor black protagonists? They were written and directed by black people. It’s a huge deal. It’s meaningful. So here we are, 2018. This movie called “Green Book” starts to make its way around the country. And it should be the story of a man named Don Shirley, a black musician who is no longer with us, and the trip he decides to take to the Deep South in 1962. 1962. Like, Jim Crow Deep South, 1962. And he needs somebody to be able to get him from place to place.archived recording (speaker 1)Some guy called over here, a doctor. He’s looking for a driver. You interested?archived recording (speaker 2)I am not a medical doctor. I’m a musician. I’m about to embark on a concert tour in the Deep South. What other experience do you have?archived recording (speaker 3)Public relations.wesley morrisIt’s got to be somebody who’s tough, has a little bit of muscle, isn’t afraid of anything, but is also obviously white.archived recordingDo you foresee any issues in working for a black man? You in the Deep South? There’s going to be problems.wesley morrisSo he decides that the man for the job is a guy named Tony Vallelonga, a kind of bouncer from the Bronx. Now what I just said to you is the opposite of what the movie actually is. The movie is actually the story of Tony Vallelonga, and how he gets a call one day from somebody for a job. And he goes and meets Don Shirley, who he sees and is like, I’m driving for you? No way, I’m not doing that. And Don Shirley, of course, is like, but I need you, you’re my man. You seem to be the most qualified person for the job. Please do it. Drive me. He consents. Thus begins a friendship almost completely from the vantage of Tony Vallelonga.michael barbaroThe white guy.wesley morrisYes. Tony is the protagonist of this movie. We spend the first 25 minutes of it with him. And I saw the poster for this movie, and the poster is Viggo Mortensen in the front seat, Mahershala Ali, who plays Don Shirley, in the back seat. The first thing I thought was, oh my god, you gotta be kidding me.michael barbaroWhy?wesley morrisIt’s “Driving Miss Daisy” all over again! This is 1989 all over again. I can’t believe this.archived recordingKentucky Fried Chicken. In Kentucky. When’s that ever going to happen?wesley morrisI mean, it’s a comedy all in the service of making you feel good about the idea that racist Tony Vallelonga can become increasingly less racist by driving Don around a place that the movie wants you to understand is more racist than Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)I got the bucket so you could have some.archived recording (speaker 2)I’ve never had fried chicken in my life.archived recording (speaker 1)Who are you bullshitting? You people love the fried chicken, the grits and the collard greens. I love it too. Negro cooks used to make it all the time when I was in the army.archived recording (speaker 2)You have a very narrow assessment of me, Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)Yeah, right? I’m good.archived recording (speaker 2)No, no, you’re not good. You’re bad. I’m saying just because other Negroes enjoy certain types of music, it doesn’t mean I have to, nor do we all eat the same kind of food.wesley morrisTony is like a nice, friendly, lovable cartoon racist. But I mean, he’s nothing compared to these Jim Crow people. You know, these Confederate racists who use the N-word every 15 minutes and have Confederate flags everywhere and will beat Don up for coughing. We’ve never seen Tony do that. This entire movie is — oh my god, it’s a literal vehicle to get Tony from racism to reconciliation in under two hours.archived recording (speaker 1)Eat it. Come on. Take it, take it, take it. I gotta drive. 10 and 2 on the wheel. Come on, take it. Take it. Come on, come on. Here you go. Huh?archived recording (speaker 2)I can’t do this, Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)Eat the [expletive] thing. Jesus.michael barbaroSo this year’s Academy Awards happens on Sunday night, 30 years after “Driving Miss Daisy” wins best picture, and Spike Lee’s “Do the Right Thing” is not even nominated for best picture. What’s going through your head as the evening unfolds? I assume you’re watching it.wesley morrisYeah, I was. I was watching it. I mean, I have to watch it.archived recordingHere are the nominees for best picture.wesley morrisI mean, obviously, there’s a juiciness, right? There’s a kind of moral juiciness. You’ve got “Green Book” nominated for best picture and four other Oscars. And then you’ve got Spike Lee back at the Oscars in a competitive way for the first time since that Oscar loss in 1990 for “Do the Right Thing.” He was nominated one other time, but this is, like — this is the big boys’ table if you’re Spike Lee. So here we are. We’re having a little bit of PTSD, because a movie that’s just like “Driving Miss Daisy” is up against a movie in “BlacKkKlansman” —archived recordingThere’s never been a black cop in this city. We think you might be the man to open things up around here.wesley morrisThat features a black guy in the Colorado Springs Police Department, who basically, via telephone, infiltrates the K.K.K., pretending to be a white guy hoping to join.archived recording (speaker 1)Hello?archived recording (speaker 2)This is Ron Stallworth calling. Who am I speaking with?archived recording (speaker 1)This is David Duke.archived recording (speaker 2)Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, that David Duke?archived recording (speaker 1)Last time I checked. What can I do you for?wesley morrisAnd it obviously is trying to depict a more accurate racial scene than “Green Book” is trying to depict.archived recording (speaker 1)We must unite and organize to fight racism.archived recording (speaker 2)Are you down for the liberation of black people?archived recording (speaker 3)Power to the people.archived recording (speaker 2)All power to all the people.archived recordingAll power to all the people.archived recording (speaker 3)That’s right, sister.michael barbaroThis is very much, in a sense, a rematch of 1989, 1990.wesley morrisIt is a spiritual rematch involving one of the actual participants, but in different categories, right? And so the stakes are this. If “Green Book” wins, and you’ve got a movie like “BlacKkKlansman” nominated for best picture, what on earth is that telling you about where the academy is as a body and what its priorities are in terms of whose point of view matters to the most people?archived recordingAnd the Oscar goes to “Green Book.”wesley morrisAnd so I feel like I really understand why that movie won. It really does believe that Don Shirley’s insisting that Tony Vallelonga be in his life makes Tony a better person. That feels good, right? It feels good to see a person make a positive change from a bad place to an arguably good one. And I don’t know, there’s just — it’s very hard to resist that. I mean, for the people who do like it, it is a really good movie. It’s entertaining, and it’s funny. And it’s made by Peter Farrelly of the Farrelly Brothers, the people who brought you “Something about Mary” and “Shallow Hal” and “Me, Myself and Irene.” These guys know how to make a comedy. That’s what they do. And that’s what this movie is, 100 percent — it’s a comedy. And I don’t think most people watch movies that morally. And there are people who — you bring this up, and I’m like, but who is Don Shirley to this movie? People get upset. Listen, it’s about interracial friendship. It’s about healing the divide between the races. How dare you? This is a good movie. And it’s saying something positive.michael barbaroRight.wesley morrisWhy do you want negativity in the world? And I never have a good answer for that, because those people — those people aren’t wrong. But I also feel like this movie is not the solution to anything. It is the perpetuation of the same problems our entertainment’s been giving us since it started.michael barbaroSo Wesley, what is significant about this best picture award? What does it mean that the academy chose a film like this — one with, to use your words, this racial reconciliation fantasy as so central to its plot — as the best film of the year?wesley morrisIt’s a fantasy. And it does nothing to address or acknowledge the infrastructural problems that keep the races divided. If anything, the enthusiasm for a movie like “Green Book” only makes — it kind of makes the problem worse, in some ways. Because it makes it seem like the movies don’t care about the way racism actually works. They just want to make racism go away. I mean, let me just put it this way. I’ll put it in the most human terms I possibly can — personal terms. I have white friends. I see very little art about the kind of friendships I have with white people. I have friendships with white people that don’t involve making them feel better about their racism, to the extent that they have it. We talk about that stuff. Like, why did you say that? Why did you do that? These are not cataclysmic conversations. These relationships are about a mutual curiosity. These people want to know what my life is like as a black person. They want to know what my family is like, what my family history is like. There is a give and take. There is a real questioning of the larger systemic problems in this country that affect the relationship that I’m even able to have with these white people. And that is not the thing that you see discussed in these movies. I think that the movies have an obligation to entertain us, but I think they also have an obligation to be fair to certain aspects of social reality. Because people take lessons from this stuff. All I’m saying is, “Green Book” is another version of a movie we’ve been watching for 100 years.michael barbaroWesley, I’m really struck that I think it was about a month ago, you wrote an essay for The Times in which you kind of laid out everything we’re talking about now. You reminded us that 30 years ago, “Driving Miss Daisy” won, and that this idea of the racial reconciliation fantasy remains prominent in Hollywood and was at the center of “Green Book.” And you seemed to kind of presciently suggest that that movie might win and that it might carry the day because of the power of this concept you were describing. And that is exactly what happened.wesley morrisI mean, listen, there’s a part of me that’s like, I never am right about the Oscar winners. But I just felt this one. I felt this one. I felt like there was a way in which the thing that happened on Sunday does mirror whatever is happening in this country right now, where a segment of the population is feeling really paranoid and a little bit endangered and is worried about feeling displaced or unseated by change. And to the extent that the people who make our movies are a microcosm of the nation writ large, the academy is undergoing some changes, and it is becoming less white and less male. And I think they’re going to, like, cling even more tightly to things that feel safe and familiar. And this is a movie that feels safe, and it feels comforting in some way. Because it lets them believe that on the one hand, they can say they’re giving their top honor to a movie about an interracial friendship and about racial reconciliation.michael barbaroRight.wesley morrisBut to me, what that says about them is also a fantasy, right? It’s also a fantasy that says, this symbol of excellence, and this symbol of our tastes and our belief as a body, or at least the people who voted for it, really does sort of reflect what we should be as a nation. And that’s not what we are. So the aspiration that we can just make this racism go away by running out and finding the nearest black person to pay us to be better people is absurd. And I think that’s what happened on Sunday.michael barbaroWesley, thank you very much.wesley morrisOh, my pleasure.michael barbaroWesley talked about “Green Book,” race and the Academy Awards with his co-host, Jenna Wortham, in the latest episode of their podcast, “Still Processing.”One headache with these movies, even one as well done as “Driving Miss Daisy,” is that they romanticize their workplaces and treat their black characters as the ideal crowbar for closed white minds and insulated lives.Who knows why, in “The Upside,” Phillip picks the uncouth, underqualified Dell to drive him around, change his catheter and share his palatial apartment. But by the time the movie’s over, they’re paragliding together to Aretha Franklin. We’re told that this is based on a true story. It’s not. It’s a remake of a far more nauseating French megahit — “Les Intouchables” — and that claimed to be based on a true story. “The Upside” seems based on one of those paternalistic ’80s movies, “Disorderlies,” the one where the Fat Boys wheel an ailing Ralph Bellamy around his mansion.Phillip’s largess and tolerance take Dell from opera-phobic to opera-curious to opera queen, leading to Dell’s being able to afford to transport his ex and their son out of the projects, and permitting Dell to take his boss’s luxury cars for a spin whether or not he’s riding shotgun. And Dell provides entertainment (and drugs) that ease Phillip’s sense of isolation and self-consciousness. But this is also a movie that needs Dell to steal one of Phillip’s antique first-editions as a surprise gift to his estranged son, and not a copy of some Judith Krantz or Sidney Sheldon novel, either. He swipes “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” (and to reach it, his hand has to skip past a few Horatio Alger books, too). Most of these black-white-friendship adventures were foretold by Mark Twain. Somebody is white Huck and somebody else is his amusingly dim black sidekick, Jim. This movie is just a little more flagrant about it.There’s a way of looking at the role reversal in “Green Book” as an upgrade. Through his record company, Don hires a white nightclub bouncer named Tony Vallelonga. (Most people call him Tony Lip.) We don’t meet Don for about 15 minutes, because the movie needs us to know that Tony is a sweet, Eye-talian tough guy who also throws out perfectly good glassware because his wife let black repairmen drink from it.By this point, you might have heard about the fried chicken scene in “Green Book.” It comes early in their road trip. Tony is shocked to discover that Don has never had fried chicken. He also appears never to have seen anybody eat fried chicken, either. (“What do we do about the bones?”) So, with all the greasy alacrity and exuberant crassness that Mortensen can conjure, Tony demonstrates how to eat it while driving. As comedy, it’s masterful — there’s tension, irony and, when the car stops and reverses to retrieve some litter, a punch line that brings down the house. But the comedy works only if the black, classical-pop fusion pianist is from outer space (and not in a Sun Ra sort of way). You’re meant to laugh because how could this racist be better at being black than this black man who’s supposed to be better than him?The movie Peter Farrelly directed and wrote, with Brian Currie and Tony’s son Nick, is suspiciously like “Driving Miss Daisy,” but same-sex, with Don as Daisy and Tony as Hoke. Indeed, “Miss Daisy” features a fried chicken scene, too, a delicate one, in which Hoke tells her the flame is too high on the skillet and she waves him off. Once he’s left the kitchen, she furtively, begrudgingly adjusts the burner. It’s like Farrelly watched that scene and thought it needed a stick of cartoon dynamite.Before they head out, a white character from Don’s record company gives Tony a listing of black-friendly places to house Don: The Green Book. The idea for “The Negro Motorist Green Book” belongs to Victor Hugo Green, a postal worker, who introduced it in 1936. It guided black road trippers to stress-free gas, food and lodging in the segregated South. The story of its invention, distribution and updating is an amusing, invigorating, poignant and suspenseful story of an astonishing social network, and warrants a movie in itself. In the meantime, what does Tony need a Green Book for? He is the Green Book.The movie’s tagline is “based on a true friendship.” But the transactional nature of it makes the friendship seem less true than sponsored. So what does the money do, exactly? The white characters — the biological ones and somebody supposedly not black enough, like fictional Don — are lonely people in these pay-a-pal movies. The money is ostensibly for legitimate assistance, but it also seems to paper over all that’s potentially fraught about race. The relationship is entirely conscripted as service and bound by capitalism and the fantastically presumptive leap is, The money doesn’t matter because I like working for you. And if you’re the racist in the relationship: I can’t be horrible because we’re friends now. That’s why the hug Sandra Bullock gives Yomi Perry, the actor playing her maid, Maria, at the end of “Crash,” remains the single most disturbing gesture of its kind. It’s not friendship. Friendship is mutual. That hug is cannibalism.Money buys Don a chauffeur and, apparently, an education in black folkways and culture. (Little Richard? He’s never heard him play.) Shirley’s real-life family has objected to the portrait. Their complaints include that he was estranged from neither black people nor blackness. Even without that thumbs-down, you can sense what a particularly perverse fantasy this is: that absolution resides in a neutered black man needing a white guy not only to protect and serve him, but to love him, too. Even if that guy and his Italian-American family and mob associates refer to Don and other black people as eggplant and coal. In the movie’s estimation, their racism is preferable to its nasty, blunter southern cousin because their racism is often spoken in Italian. And, hey, at least Tony never asks Don to eat his fancy dinner in a supply closet.Mahershala Ali is acting Shirley’s isolation and glumness, but the movie determines that dining with racists is better than dining alone. The money buys Don relative safety, friendship, transportation and a walking-talking black college. What the money can’t buy him is more of the plot in his own movie. It can’t allow him to bask in his own unique, uniquely dreamy artistry. It can’t free him from a movie that sits him where Miss Daisy sat, yet treats him worse than Hoke. He’s a literal passenger on this white man’s trip. Tony learns he really likes black people. And thanks to Tony, now so does Don.Lately, the black version of these interracial relationships tends to head in the opposite direction. In the black version, for one thing, they’re not about money or a job but about the actual emotional, psychological work of being black among white people. Here, the proximity to whiteness is toxic, a danger, a threat. That’s the thrust of Jeremy O. Harris’s stage drama “Slave Play,” in which the traumatic legacy of plantation life pollutes the black half of the show’s interracial relationships. That’s a particularly explicit, ingenious example. But scarcely any of the work I’ve seen in the last year by black artists — not Jackie Sibblies Drury’s equally audacious play “Fairview,” not Boots Riley’s “Sorry to Bother You,” not “Blindspotting,” which Daveed Diggs co-wrote and stars in, not Barry Jenkins’s “If Beale Street Could Talk” or Ryan Coogler’s “Black Panther” — emphasizes the smoothness and joys of interracial friendship and certainly not through employment. The health of these connections is iffy, at best.In 1989, Lee was pretty much on his own as a voice of black racial reality. His rankled pragmatism now has company and, at the Academy Awards, it’s also got stiff competition. He helped plant the seeds for an environment in which black artists can look askance at race. But a lot of us still need the sense of fantastical racial contentment that movies like “The Upside” and “Green Book” are slinging. I’ve seen “Green Book” with paying audiences, and it cracks people up the way any of Farrelly’s comedies do. The kind of closure it offers is like a drug that Lee’s never dealt. The Charlottesville-riot footage that he includes as an epilogue in “BlacKkKlansman” might bury the loose, essentially comedic movie it’s attached to in furious lava. Lee knows the past too well to ever let the present off the hook. The volcanoes in this country have never been dormant.The academy’s embrace of Lee at this stage of his career (this is his first best director nomination) suggests that it’s come around to what rankles him. Of course, “BlacKkKlansman” is taking on the unmistakable villainy of the KKK in the 1970s. But what put Lee on the map 30 years ago was his fearlessness about calling out the universal casual bigotry of the moment, like Daisy’s and Tony’s. It’s hot as hell in “Do the Right Thing,” and in the heat, almost everybody has a problem with who somebody is. The pizzeria owned by Sal (Danny Aiello) comes to resemble a house of hate. Eventually Sal’s delivery guy, Mookie (played by Lee), incites a melee by hurling a trash can through the store window. He’d already endured a conversation with Pino (John Turturro), Sal’s racist son, in which he tells Mookie that famous black people are “more than black.”Closure is impossible because the blood is too bad, too historically American. Lee had conjured a social environment that’s the opposite of what “The Upside,” “Green Book,” and “Driving Miss Daisy” believe. In one of the very last scenes, after Sal’s place is destroyed, Mookie still demands to be paid. To this day, Sal’s tossing balled-up bills at Mookie, one by one, shocks me. He’s mortally offended. Mookie’s unmoved. They’re at a harsh, anti-romantic impasse. We’d all been reared on racial-reconciliation fantasies. Why can’t Mookie and Sal be friends? The answer’s too long and too raw. Sal can pay Mookie to deliver pizzas ‘til kingdom come. But he could never pay him enough to be his friend.OpinionAdvertisement