AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott TobiasCapping a Golden Globes ceremony that belonged more to audience favorites than to critical darlings, “Bohemian Rhapsody” and its star, Rami Malek, played the spoiler to “A Star Is Born” in the battle between two musicals competing in the best drama category for film. Neither, however, is currently streaming, and nor are any of the other major movie winners except for Netflix’s “Roma,” which won prizes for its director, Alfonso Cuarón, and for best foreign language movie.[Here’s the complete list of Golden Globe winners.]The good news is, plenty of quality movie nominees can be streamed now, and many of the winners arrive online later this month, including “Rhapsody” (Jan. 22), “Star” (Jan. 15) and “The Wife” (Jan. 22), a little-seen film for which Glenn Close won best actress. Meanwhile, nearly all of the TV winners are already on subscription services or available for rental.Here’s a guide to the those major-category nominees and winners that are already a click away, along with excerpts from their New York Times reviews.Won for: Best foreign language, best director.Nominated for: Best screenplay.“Many directors use spectacle to convey larger-than-life events while reserving devices like close-ups to express a character’s inner being. Here, [Alfonso] Cuarón uses both intimacy and monumentality to express the depths of ordinary life.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Manohla Dargis.)Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix.Nominated for: Best drama, best actor in a drama, best supporting actor.“‘BlacKkKlansman’ is a furious, funny, blunt and brilliant confrontation with the truth. It’s an alarm clock ringing in the midst of a historical nightmare, and also a symphony, the rare piece of political popular art that works in all three dimensions.” (Click here to read the full Times review by A.O. Scott.)Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best drama.“It wouldn’t be a Marvel production without manly skirmishes and digital avatars. Yet in its emphasis on black imagination, creation and liberation, the movie becomes an emblem of a past that was denied and a future that feels very present. And in doing so opens up its world, and yours, beautifully.” (Click here to read the full Times review by A.O. Scott.)Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix. Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best actress, musical or comedy.“There are few more poignant, exasperating creatures than teenage girls. And rarely are they as heart-pangingly real as the girl fumbling through the sharp, smart comedy ‘Eighth Grade.’” (Click here to read the full Times review by Manohla Dargis.)Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube (streaming free to Amazon Prime subscribers starting Jan. 13).Nominated for: Best actress, musical or comedy.“[Charlize] Theron and [Mackenzie] Davis make a pleasurable, watchable pair — Ms. Davis is obviously happy to be the moon to Ms. Theron’s sun — but ‘Tully’ isn’t really interested in the sustaining joys of female bonding. It has a message to deliver, which is as sincere and decent as it is obvious: Mothers need help, sometimes serious help.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Manohla Dargis.)Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes, Amazon, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best musical or comedy; best actress, musical or comedy.“‘Crazy Rich Asians,’ a busy, fizzy movie winnowed from Kevin Kwan’s sprawling, dishy novel, sets up a series of clashes — between tradition and individualism, between the heart’s desire and familial duty, between insane wealth and prudent upward mobility — that are resolved with more laughter than tears. There are squalls of intrigue and a melodramatic cloudburst or two, but nothing that threatens to spoil the festivities.” (Click here to read the full Times review by A.O. Scott.)Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best actor, musical or comedy.“The proper compliment to give ‘The Old Man & The Gun’ is that it treats Mr. Redford with the respect he deserves. A charismatic minimalist from the start, he has lately — in the haunting ‘All is Lost’ and the mild-mannered ‘Our Souls at Night’ — offered a series of master classes in understatement. At a time when bluster, bragging and histrionic displays of self-pity are apparently the defining characteristics of American manhood, it’s nice to be reminded of the virtues of discretion and quiet.” (Click here to read the full Times review by A.O. Scott.)Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes, Amazon, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best supporting actor.“‘Beautiful Boy,’ rather than plumbing the hard emotional depths of its subject, skates on a surface of sentiment and gauzy visual beauty…But the picturesqueness and the flowing, music-video rhythms of the editing give the film a slick, evasive feel, as if it were too cautious or too cool to confront the worst of what it’s about.” (Click here to read the full Times review by A.O. Scott.)Where to watch: Stream it on Amazon.Nominated for: Best animated.“Like his superheroes, [Director Brad] Bird is extraordinarily good at destruction, which is very much in evidence in the virtuosic, often delightful ‘Incredibles 2,’ which picks up narratively where the last movie left off.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Manohla Dargis.)Where to watch: Rent it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Nominated for: Best animated.“‘Isle of Dogs’ is filled with exquisite illustrations, whimsical flourishes and nostalgic details — old-fashioned labels, computer punch cards — that thicken the texture of its imaginary world. But too often the movie feels overworked, fussy.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Manohla Dargis.)Where to watch: Stream it on HBO Now and HBO Go. Buy it on iTunes, Amazon, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Won for: Best series, drama.Nominated for: Best actor, drama; b est actress, drama.“[‘The Americans’ is a] remarkable accomplishment: It’s a subtle, complex portrait of a relationship etched into an engaging espionage thriller set in 1981, when Reagan was newly elected, and cars were big, and so was the Cold War.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Alessandra Stanley.)Where to watch: Stream it on Amazon. Buy it on iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Won for: Best series, musical or comedy; b est actor, musical or comedy.Nominated for: Supporting actor.“‘The Kominsky Method’ isn’t a disaster; it has a certain warm-bath appeal, if you don’t mind a thick foam of prostate jokes. But it is adrift in a bland netherworld between Lorre’s precision-tooled, laugh-a-minute network comedies and the quieter aesthetic of the alt-sitcom, lacking the strengths of either.” (Click here to read the full Times review by Mike Hale.)Where to watch: Stream it on Netflix.Won for: Best series or TV movie, best actor in a limited series or TV movie.“At some point we’ll all have to grapple with the idea that the warped compassion of the modern true-crime boom implicates its audience and that viewers are greedily lining up to be part of a lurid long tail of suffering and despair. If ‘The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story’ were a little more interesting, maybe it would be that lightning rod. But instead it’s a surprisingly inert, if lushly imagined, tale.” (Click to read the full Times review by Margaret Lyons.)Where to watch: Buy it on iTunes, Amazon, Vudu and Google Play (comes to Netflix on Jan. 17).[Read our updates and analysis from the Golden Globes ceremony.]Advertisement