AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.AMOUR OR LESS: A BLIER BUFFET at the Quad Cinema (through March 21). Imagine “A Clockwork Orange” as a screwball comedy, and you would be pretty close to Bertrand Blier’s “Going Places” (on Friday, Tuesday, Thursday and March 16), which stars Gérard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere as thugs who drift across France stealing money and cars and assaulting women, usually without consequence. Was Blier celebrating their behavior? Critics disagreed. Pauline Kael called the film an “explosively funny erotic farce,” while Roger Ebert said it was “the most misogynistic movie I can remember.” In the Quad’s career-reviving Blier series, “Buffet Froid” (on Friday, Sunday, Tuesday and March 21), first shown in 1979, holds up better. A pitch-black comedy that borrows heavily from Luis Buñuel and Albert Camus and perhaps looks forward to “After Hours,” the movie casts Depardieu as an unemployed man who may or may not have knifed an accountant in the subway, a murder that — like all the others in this movie — is treated as no big deal by his neighbor, a police inspector (the director’s father, Bernard Blier). “Get Out Your Handkerchiefs,” which won Blier an Oscar in 1979, will get a full run beginning on March 15.212-255-2243, quadcinema.comCANADA NOW 2019 at IFC Center (through March 10). This annual sampling of movies from our neighbor to the north always reflects the diversity of Canadian cinema. “Edge of the Knife,” screening on Saturday, is set in 19th-century British Columbia and is said to be Canada’s first Haida-language feature, with an all-Haida cast reviving two near-lost indigenous dialects for the film. Other titles such as the documentary “Hugh Hefner’s After Dark: Speaking Out in America” (on Friday), about two TV shows the Chicago-born Playboy magnate spearheaded, are Canadian productions in disguise.212-924-7771, ifccenter.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘EMPIRE’ at the Whitney Museum (March 9, 1 p.m.). In a cinematic career known for offscreen intimations of oral sex (“Blow Job”) and movies with Edie Sedgwick in her undergarments (“Poor Little Rich Girl,” “Beauty #2”), Andy Warhol made what is perhaps his most notorious film in “Empire” — which simply captured Empire State Building from shortly after 8 p.m. until nearly 3 a.m. one night in July 1964. (Jonas Mekas, who died in January, was part of the small crew who helped film the movie from the 41st floor of the Time & Life Building.) “Empire” treats time itself as a variable: According to the Museum of Modern Art, when projected, the film is meant to be slowed down so that it runs slightly more than eight hours. The Whitney is screening “Empire” this Saturday as part of its exhibition “Andy Warhol — From A to B and Back Again,” which includes a large sampling of Warhol’s moving-image output.whitney.org/exhibitions/film‘GIRL 6’ at Alamo Drafthouse (March 11, 7 p.m.). This 1996 feature from Spike Lee, with a script by the playwright Suzan-Lori Parks, follows a struggling actress (Theresa Randle) who takes work as a phone sex operator. Currently unavailable to stream, the film was not one of the director’s biggest hits critically or commercially, but even mixed reviews suggest it has its upsides. “Bold colors, a dance track of Prince songs, a parade of wild costumes, good-humored sexual teasing and warmly inviting cinematography by Malik Sayeed all contribute to this comedy’s high-energy party mood,” Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times.718-513-2547, drafthouse.com/nycSEE IT BIG! COSTUMES BY EDITH HEAD at the Museum of the Moving Image (through March 10). The museum’s retrospective on the legendary costume designer closes with a weekend of Hitchcock. Grace Kelly and Cary Grant don their best (and Grant, his cat-burglar suit) on the French Riviera for “To Catch a Thief” (on Friday), while Tippi Hedren is impeccably well dressed for both the avian attacks in “The Birds” (on Saturday and Sunday) and for safecracking in “Marnie” (on Saturday and Sunday), in which Head’s tailoring is just one element of the sophisticated color scheme in Hitchcock’s depiction of repressed trauma.718-784-0077, movingimage.usAdvertisement