AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnGuillermo del Toro’s “Hellboy” airs on Syfy ahead of the series’ imminent reboot. And a zombie spinoff hits Netflix.HELLBOY (2004) 8:30 p.m. on Syfy. Hellboy, the cigar-chomping, lobster-colored satanic superhero born of Mike Mignola’s comics in the 1990s, was brought to larger audiences by this Guillermo del Toro-directed romp. Wittier and infused with a sweeter disposition than the average big-screen comic book adaptation — though still plenty violent — del Toro’s movie casts Ron Perlman (“Sons of Anarchy”) as the title character, a demon with a devil tail whose origins involve both Grigori Rasputin and an interdimensional portal built by Nazis. (It’s complicated.) He winds up working for a government agency (secret, naturally) that defends against paranormal threats. His fellow agents there include an amphibious man played by Doug Jones (who would later play another fish-man in del Toro’s “The Shape of Water”) and a woman with pyrotechnic abilities (Selma Blair). In his review for The New York Times, Elvis Mitchell wrote that del Toro “lets loose with an all-American, vaudevillian rambunctiousness that makes the movie daffy, loose and lovable.” It will be interesting to see what the director Neil Marshall brings to the series when his reboot, also called “Hellboy,” hits theaters on Friday.35 SHOTS OF RUM (2009) Stream on Fandor. The French filmmaker Claire Denis, whose “High Life” has a spaceship-dwelling Robert Pattinson currently brooding on the big screens, turned her attention to more terrestrial concerns in this slow-burner. The movie centers on Lionel (Alex Descas), a widower who operates commuter rail cars for a living, and Joséphine (Mati Diop), his university student daughter. The pair live together in a non-central Paris neighborhood, going through quiet routines that get rocked slightly by the romantic attentions of a pair of neighbors, Gabrielle (Nicole Dogue) and Noé (Grégoire Colin). While a slow separation between father and daughter is the film’s clearest focus, A. O. Scott wrote in his review for The Times that “its real drama is in quiet moments, in glances and whispers captured by Agnès Godard’s exquisite and expressive cinematography.”TYREL (2018) Stream on Hulu; Rent on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. Jason Mitchell plays the odd man out on a nightmarish retreat to the Catskills in this comedy-drama. What was supposed to be an innocuous birthday party for a friend of a friend turns into something more sinister, thanks in part to the fact that the flock of partyers are young white men whose drunk antics do little to help Tyler (who is black) feel like anything other than an outsider. Michael Cera arrives late in the movie, as a rich kid with a Trump piñata.BLACK SUMMER Stream on Netflix. Syfy’s not-entirely-serious zombie apocalypse series “Z Nation” gets the spinoff treatment here, in the form of an eight-episode story of a mother (Jaime King) traversing the plains of zombie-land in search of her missing daughter. Assuming that it follows the lead of its mother series, expect tongue-in-decomposed-cheek action.Advertisement