AdvertisementSupported byWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jeannette Catsoulis“The Chaperone” is about a woman who abandons her literal and figurative corsets and discovers her bliss. The year is 1922, the woman is a genteel Presbyterian wife named Norma (Elizabeth McGovern), and the starchy setting is Wichita, Kansas. To sell this heavy-handed foundation-garment metaphor, the director Michael Engler and his screenwriter, Julian Fellowes (working from the book by Laura Moriarty), wrap it in the stardust of the larval silent film star Louise Brooks (Haley Lu Richardson), who, as a precocious 15-year-old, is chaperoned by Norma to Manhattan to study dance.“Men don’t like candy that’s been unwrapped,” Norma admonishes her furiously flirting charge, a wild child with a yen for booze and barflies. Yet despite a thoroughly modern central character, this impeccably costumed, wishy-washy period piece feels like it emerged from a PBS storage trunk, wrapped in tissue paper and reeking of mothballs. McGovern is a lovely actor, but she’s too gentle and self-effacing to convince as a Prohibition-supporting scold or provide an effective foil for a teenage tearaway. Most of the time she’s simply repurposing her performance as the mild-mannered Lady Cora in “Downton Abbey.”Dull and wooden, the men who circle Norma’s libidinal and feminist awakening mostly disappear into the furniture. Caught indulging a bliss of his own, her husband (Campbell Scott) barely musters a change of expression. Geza Rohrig fares better as the sweet German handyman who fixes her right up, even helping her solve a childhood mystery. The whole enterprise, though, has a made-for-TV patina and tonal primness that drain the melodrama. And though Richardson is a delight, her verve and sexual confidence only highlight the dreariness around her. A light goes out whenever she’s offscreen.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Movie data powered by IMDb.comNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes.Advertisement