AdvertisementSupported byBy Brian SchaeferOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BALLET FLAMENCO SARA BARAS at New York City Center (March 7-9, 8 p.m.; through March 10). La Farruca is a style of flamenco characterized by fast, intense footwork, quick spins and dramatic poses. Historically it has been performed by men, but women are increasingly claiming it for themselves. Baras, a flamenco dancer from Spain celebrated for her power and precision, has long been associated with the style. That dismantling of gender roles informs her show “Shadows,” which was created in honor of the 20th anniversary of her company and which will be performed to a score by the guitarist Keko Baldomero. 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.orgHARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL at 92nd Street Y (March 1, 8 p.m.; March 2, 4 and 8 p.m.; through March 30). The 25th anniversary of this annual monthlong display of modern dance pays tribute to another milestone — the centenary of the birth of Merce Cunningham, who died a decade ago. Over the next four weeks, companies founded by Cunningham alumni will perform their own new work. But first comes “A Feast of Cunningham,” in which Melissa Toogood, a dynamic veteran of his company, performs solos from several of his works, as well as duets from others with the American Ballet Theater soloist Calvin Royal III. New York Theater Ballet will dance “Septet” and “Cross Currents,” and there will be a MinEvent, a choreographic collage made for the space. 212-415-5500, 92y.orgHUBBARD STREET DANCE CHICAGO at the Joyce Theater (March 6, 7:30 p.m.; March 7-8, 8 p.m.; through March 17). Since its founding more than 40 years ago, Hubbard Street has been one of this country’s top repertory companies, so it has a stable of versatile, vivacious dancers who can do anything a guest choreographer throws at them. Over the years, it has built a diverse repertory from top-shelf international dance makers. For this two-week visit, it focuses on two of them. The first week features “Decadance/Chicago,” a compilation of excerpts from works tailored to this troupe by the revered Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin. Beginning on March 12, the program shifts to three works by the savvy Canadian choreographer Crystal Pite. 212-242-0800, joyce.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]JIVA DANCE at Dixon Place (March 7-8, 8 p.m.; through March 10). Under the direction of Sonali Skandan, this New York-based company is rooted in the classical Indian dance form of Bharatanatyam and looks to expand that tradition by addressing contemporary themes. “The Four Horsemen,” a new work by Skandan and Maya Kulkarni, examines the experiences of four women confronting exploitation, war, hunger and death through vignettes of dance, music and Sanskrit poetry. 212-219-0736, dixonplace.orgLES ARTS FLORISSANTS at BAM Howard Gilman Opera House (March 1-2, 7:30 p.m.; March 3, 3 p.m.). This musical ensemble, based in France, is best known for its renditions of Baroque operas. In this visit to Brooklyn, the company presents “Rameau, Maître à Danser,” a program consisting of two opera-ballets by the 18th-century composer Jean-Philippe Rameau that reflect courtly elegance. The featured works — “La Naissance d’Osiris” and “Daphnis et Églé” — showcase fleet-footed choreography by Françoise Denieau, restaged by Gilles Poirier. 718-636-4100, bam.orgMOLLY LIEBER AND ELEANOR SMITH at New York Live Arts (March 6-9, 7:30 p.m.). We usually think of duets as two people dancing in unison, but Lieber and Smith, who have been working together since 2006, aim for something more complicated. In their duets, the goal may be to become a single being or channel shared feelings to the point of blurring any sense of the individual. The result is a portrait of intimacy between two artists who are fully present to each other and the audience. Their latest piece, “Body Comes Apart,” uses movement, monologue and storytelling to convey a spectrum of emotions.212-691-6500, newyorklivearts.orgLIME RICKEY INTERNATIONAL at Abrons Arts Center (March 7-9, 7 p.m.). This project is the “superconsciousness” of the Arab-American artist Leyya Mona Tawil, who favors neon wigs and moody soundscapes and who creates within a genre she calls “Arab experimentalism.” In her new work, “Future Faith,” Tawil uses music and movement — especially Arab folk dances like dabke and tarab — to comment on culture, politics and identity. 866-811-4111, abronsartscenter.orgNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through March 3). The final weekend of City Ballet’s winter season offers a tidy recap of the previous weeks. On Friday and Saturday afternoon, the company presents a Balanchine double bill with “Prodigal Son” and “Liebeslieder Walzer”; on Saturday evening it serves up a triple bill of new and revised work by William Forsythe, Kyle Abraham and Justin Peck; and on Sunday it concludes the season with a trifecta of works by Jerome Robbins, featuring “Interplay,” “In the Night” and “N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz.” 212-496-0600, nycballet.comDUSAN TYNEK DANCE THEATER at Baruch Performing Arts Center (March 7-9, 7:30 p.m.). “The Garden of Earthly Delights,” the fantastical 500-year-old triptych painting by Hieronymus Bosch, serves as inspiration for Tynek’s latest work, “Le Jardin Qui Rit” (“The Laughing Garden”) — in particular, the large center panel, which depicts a kind of surreal pleasure-seeking playground. The Czech-born Tynek, who founded this New York-based company in 2003, doesn’t literally bring that scene to life but rather channels its energy and imagination and funnels it through his fluid, vigorous choreography and theatrical sensibility. 646-312-5073, baruch.cuny.edu/bpacVERTIGO DANCE COMPANY at Baryshnikov Arts Center (March 5-6, 7:30 p.m.). In the early 2000s in the Elah Valley outside Jerusalem, Noa Wertheim and her three sisters founded the Eco-Art Village, home to chicken coops, organic gardens and a big, bright dance studio. It is also home to Vertigo, the company Wertheim and her husband, Adi Sha’al, founded in 1992. That connection to nature figures into “One. One & One,” which the company performs atop a soil-covered floor and which will debut in the United States on Tuesday. One of Israel’s top contemporary troupes, Vertigo is celebrated for its theatrical flair and meditative athleticism, both of which will be on display here. 866-811-4111, bacnyc.orgAdvertisement