AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Natalie ProulxBefore reading the article: Try out a mini experiment testing the way water reacts to different types of surfaces. First, gather a few surfaces with varying textures — rough, smooth, grainy, oily, soft, hard or bumpy. You might use a desktop, a sheet of textured paper, an aluminum can or pavement.Then, using a dropper, Pasteur pipette or straw, drip water on the different surfaces. Record your observations:• What do you notice about the water’s behavior on each surface? • How does it interact with the material? • What does the water’s shape look like before and after it touches the surface? • How does it behave on a smooth, hard surface as opposed to a rough, hard one?Why do you think scientists would want to know how water droplets interact with different surfaces? How could this research be applied in the real world?(If you don’t have these materials available, you might watch this video without the sound. As you observe the water splashes in the video, answer the questions above.)Now, watch the video, “Spinning Water Droplets That Defy Physics,” and answer the following questions:1. How did scientists create the “dancing drops” featured in the first shot of the video?2. What did Issac Newton have to say about bouncing objects? How does his theory relate to the bouncing of water?3. Why did the water droplets behave differently on the adhesive surfaces created by the researchers than they did on a smooth, water-repellent surface?4. What did scientists learn from dropping water on a magnetically suspended surface?Then read a related article, “This Water Drop, It’s the Greatest Dancer,” and answer the remaining questions: 5. What do Yanlin Song and his team at the Institute of Chemistry at the Chinese Academy of Sciences study and why?6. How did the researchers create these special surfaces? What did they discover about the water’s reaction to the different patterns they used?7. How might this technology be useful in the future?Finally, tell us more about what you think: Return to your experiment. Did what you learned about the behavior of water prove true in your own experiment? Did you notice it reacting to different surfaces differently? If so, how so? If not, how did the water in your experiment react differently than scientists might expect? Why do you think it turned out this way?How else might this research be useful?For more, you might take a look at one of the related articles linked at the bottom of the article. How do you see what you learned about water’s behavior showing up in these pieces?Related Learning Network Lesson Plan: Water: Teaching About the World’s Most Valuable SubstanceAdvertisement