AdvertisementSupported byBy Gia KourlasOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BALLETBOYZ at the Joyce Theater (Jan. 29-30, 7:30 p.m.; Jan. 31, 8 p.m.; through Feb. 3). This company, formed by Michael Nunn and William Trevitt — who met at the Royal Ballet School and both joined the Royal Ballet in 1987 — presents the New York premiere of “Young Men,” a multimedia work focusing on stories of love, friendship, loss and survival among soldiers in World War I. Choreographed by Iván Pérez, a former Nederlands Dans Theater member, the production is set to a score by Keaton Henson and includes a film.212-242-0800, joyce.orgMERCE CUNNINGHAM CENTENNIAL at Anthology Film Archives (Jan. 28, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 18). In this series, part of the ongoing celebration of Cunningham’s birth, Anthology screens an array of films and videos. For the fourth program, the filmmaker Elliot Caplan will appear in honor of “Points in Space,” his 1986 documentary for the BBC. It’s a gold mine: The first half includes interviews with Cunningham, John Cage and dancers including Alan Good, Catherine Kerr, Chris Komar and Carol Teitelbaum, while the second half features the titular dance.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.orgDANCES BY VERY YOUNG CHOREOGRAPHERS at New York Live Arts (Jan. 26, 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Jan. 27, 1 and 4 p.m.). Ellen Robbins, who has been teaching dance since 1966, presides over a showcase of solos choreographed and performed by participants in her program, which instructs children, ages 8 to 18, in the art of dance and choreography. The focus is modern dance; the resulting works range from humorous and conceptual to narrative. On Saturday night, the performance is an alumni concert and will include works by Pele Bauch, Samantha Scully, Lina Dahbour, Adriane Erdos, Krista Jansen and Molly Rabinowitz.212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.orgANNE TERESA DE KEERSMAEKER/ROSAS at Baryshnikov Arts Center (Jan. 30-Feb. 2, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 3). In the New York premiere of “Verklärte Nacht” (“Transfigured Night”), De Keersmaeker takes inspiration from Arnold Schönberg’s score, which is based on a poem by Richard Dehmel. Originally a group work from 1995, the choreographer has given it an intimate makeover: Now performed by three dancers, it is predominantly a duet in which a woman reveals to the man she loves that she is pregnant with another man’s child. It’s full-on drama. 866-811-4111, bacnyc.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]GRUPO CORPO at BAM Howard Gilman Opera House (Jan. 31-Feb. 2, 7:30 p.m.). This 22-member Brazilian troupe, formed by Paulo Pederneiras in 1975, returns to BAM with two works by Rodrigo Pederneiras: “Bach” and “Gira.” (The two are brothers; Paulo is Grupo Corpo’s artistic director, and Rodrigo is its choreographer.) In the 1996 work “Bach” — set to Marco Antônio Guimarães’s homage to the composer — the dancers, wearing gold, black and blue, hang and descend from steel tubes. For “Gira,” the mood shifts dramatically as Grupo Corpo collaborates with the São Paulo punk-jazz-rock band Metá Metá and draws on the rhythms and movement rooted in the rites of the Umbanda religion.718-636-4100, bam.orgJUDSON DANCE THEATER: A COLLECTIVE SPECULATION at MoMA PS1 (Jan. 27, 2-6 p.m.). As part of the current MoMA exhibition “Judson Dance Theater: The Work Is Never Done,” which looks at the experimental collective formed in the 1960s, MoMA PS1’s VW Sunday Sessions performance series hosts a symposium exploring the group’s influence on the current generation. Programming includes discussions and sound improvisations by an impressive array of artists, scholars and critics. The lineup features Fred Moten; K. J. Holmes and Ramsey Ameen; Malik Gaines; André Lepecki; Marina Rosenfeld with Eli Keszler and Greg Fox; Clare Croft; and Gus Solomons Jr.718-784-2084, moma.orgNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through March 3). The company gives its winter season an extra glow with debuts, notably Gonzalo Garcia in “Apollo” and Teresa Reichlen in “Orpheus” on Saturday evening. Later in the week, as part of the annual New Combinations Evening on Thursday, the company’s resident choreographer, Justin Peck, unveils his latest, “Principia,” set to a commissioned score by the composer Sufjan Stevens. Featuring 24 dancers led by Tiler Peck and Taylor Stanley, the premiere is the fourth time Peck and Stevens have collaborated at City Ballet. The program will be rounded out by William Forsythe’s “Herman Schmerman” and Kyle Abraham’s “The Runaway.”212-496-0600, nycballet.comTHUNDERBIRD AMERICAN INDIAN DANCERS at Theater for the New City (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.; Jan. 26, 3 and 8 p.m.; Jan. 27, 3 p.m.; through Feb. 3). For its 44th annual performance and powwow, this Native American dance company, formed in 1963, offers a program of dance, stories and traditional music from the Northeast, the Southwest and the Great Plains tribes, along with “Silent Echoes of Time,” a contemporary work by Michael Taylor-Dancing Wolf. Inspired by Vietnam veterans, it will be shown at select performances. Other highlights include storytelling by Matoaka Eagle, a hoop dance by Marie Ponce and a deer dance from the Yaqui tribes of southern Arizona. The company’s director, Louis Mofsie, will serve as the M.C.212-254-1109, theaterforthenewcity.netURBAN BUSH WOMEN at BRIC House Ballroom (Jan. 31-Feb. 2, 8-11 p.m.; through Feb. 9). In “Hair & Other Stories,” this acclaimed company — and now artists in residence at BRIC — reinterprets Jawole Willa Jo Zollar’s 2001 work “HairStories.” Choreographed by Chanon Judson and Samantha Speis, the group’s associate artistic directors, the piece explores ideas around beauty, identity and race as related to hair — particularly that of African-American women. This production, with guest performances and preshow activities starting at 7 p.m., includes new music by the Illustrious Blacks. 718-855-7882, bricartsmedia.orgAdvertisement