AdvertisementSupported byBy Brian SchaeferOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.TEI BLOW & LAUREL ATWELL at Baryshnikov Arts Center (March 15, 7 and 9 p.m.). “You have to put yourself on a merry-go-round that keeps turning all the time,” Merce Cunningham said of how he helped his dancers prepare for the unusual staging of his 1994 work “Ocean,” in which they are surrounded by the audience. Blow and Atwell use “Ocean” as the seed for a work-in-progress audiovisual experience they call “Entry.” Here, audience members lie on the floor (on blankets) to view film and light projections, which include abstracted and manipulated sections of Cunningham’s choreography. Though the show itself is not a live dance performance, it is an immersive and inventive reimagining of one. 866-811-4111, bacnyc.orgCHINA NATIONAL OPERA & DANCE DRAMA THEATER at the David H. Koch Theater (March 21-23, 8 p.m.; through March 24). Billed as a dance drama, this troupe’s “Princess Zhaojun” tells the tale of a Han dynasty-era concubine named Wang Zhaojun, who leaves her privileged palace life to marry a Hun monarch on the northern Chinese border, thus bringing peace to the region. Her story is conveyed here through traditional Chinese music, luxe costumes and choreography by Kong Dexin, who also directed the production and who counts herself a direct descendant of Confucius — 77th generation, to be exact. 212-496-0600, davidhkochtheater.comDYLAN CROSSMAN DANS(C)E at the 92nd Street Y (March 15, 8 p.m.; March 16, 4 and 8 p.m.). In its 25th year, the Harkness Festival, a monthlong display of modern dance, continues its celebration of what would have been Merce Cunningham’s 100th birthday. To illustrate the lasting effects of his influence, the festival is showcasing companies founded by Cunningham alumni. This week, Crossman, who danced with Cunningham’s troupe through its concluding Legacy Tour, presents a new work called “Jamais Plus.” With its clean lines and physical decorum, it retains elements of the Cunningham style but mixes them with messier, more human moments to find idiosyncrasies beneath a polished surface. 212-415-5500, 92y.orgCUNY DANCE INITIATIVE at Baruch Performing Arts Center (March 20-23, 7:30 p.m.). Over the past five years, this expansive residency program has brought more than 100 dance artists to 13 CUNY campuses across the city. This annual showcase offers a sampling of that work, and this year it’s spread over two programs. Program A (on Wednesday and March 22) features the flamenco pair Sonia Olla and Ismael Fernandez, the tap dancer Andrew Nemr, the choreographer Loni Landon and a solo from Urban Bush Women. Program B (on Thursday and March 23) includes Pigeonwing Dance, a solo by Parijat Desai, a mix of dance and spoken word by MBDance and an excerpt from Ephrat Asherie Dance. 212-352-3101, baruch.cuny.edu/bpac‘FROM THE HORSE’S MOUTH’ at the 14th Street Y (March 21-23, 8 p.m.; through March 24). With a combination of dance and theater, this series illuminates dance history with unique, original productions. For this iteration, it honors the writer Deborah Jowitt, a calm, insightful voice in dance for more than 50 years, celebrated for evocative writing that prioritizes curiosity over judgment. Performances will include stories, anecdotes, film footage and live dancing by many of those Jowitt has written about, including Carmen de Lavallade, Valda Setterfield, Gus Solomons Jr. and Martine van Hamel. On Wednesday at 3 p.m., Jowitt will participate in a panel on dance writing with several of her contemporaries. 646-395-4310, 14streety.org/fromthehorsesmouthGRAHAM DECONSTRUCTED at Graham Studios (March 20, 7 p.m.). This intimate studio series gives Martha Graham fans a chance to watch new and revived work up close before it heads into the theater. For this iteration, the company opens up a rehearsal of Graham’s 1962 “Secular Games.” The work for 12 dancers skewers sexual stereotypes and the comedy of courtship. Its choreography has been reconstructed for the piece’s first performance since the 1970s. The full production will be at the Joyce in April. 212-229-9200, marthagraham.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]NATIONAL COMPANY OF IRELAND at Kingsborough Community College (March 15, 8 p.m.). This charismatic troupe will traverse a large swath of Irish history — from mythology to modernity — in a two-hour spectacle called “Rhythm of the Dance.” Accompanied by singers and a live band and sporting big, bright smiles, more than 20 dancers channel parts of the Irish experience through a spectrum of Irish dance, from jigs and reels to polkas and the style known as sean nos, which starts as an intimate solo and opens up into a rousing ensemble number. 718-368-5596, onstageatkingsborough.orgNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the Museum of Modern Art (March 16-18, noon and 3 p.m.). In the early 1930s, Lincoln Kirstein enticed George Balanchine to New York, where they founded what became City Ballet. A new MoMA exhibition, “Lincoln Kirstein’s Modern,” reminds us of Kirstein’s impact as an impresario, not just on ballet, but on American art in general. To launch the exhibition, which runs through June 15, City Ballet dancers will perform twice daily over the span of three days in the museum’s atrium. The program comprises excerpts from Balanchine classics that have connections to items in the exhibition, like “Concerto Barocco” and “Agon.” The performances are included with museum admission; limited seating will be available first come first served.212-708-9400, moma.orgPERIDANCE CONTEMPORARY DANCE COMPANY at Salvatore Capezio Theater (March 16-17, 7:30 p.m.; through March 24). The choreographer Igal Perry anchors his company’s spring season with a new work called “Perfection Has No Dreams,” a collaboration with Ofer Bashan, a composer and fellow Israeli. Also on the docket is “All Told” by Alice Klock, a former longtime dancer for Hubbard Street Dance Chicago; “Nightwalkers” by Yoshito Sakuraba; and a duet by Ido Tadmor, who’s something of a rock star of dance in his native Israel. 212-505-0886, peridance.comWORK UP 5.3 at Gibney (March 15-16, 8 p.m.). As part of this year’s iteration of Gibney’s annual professional development program for early-career artists, three choreographers will each present a short work that has been nurtured during their residency: Laurel Snyder presents an improvisational solo that explores the boundaries we create for ourselves. Nana Chinara examines “violence on a black queer femme body,” as she states in a press release. And Richardson celebrates black camaraderie and takes inspiration from public movement that he observed at a parade for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 646-837-6809, gibneydance.orgAdvertisement