

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

APRIL 12, 2019

A Journey Through Dance Photography From the New York Times Archives
Past TenseSix months ago, the newly formed Past Tense team began sifting through the treasure chest that is the New York Times archive, where some six million photographs are filed away. Photographs of dance quickly emerged as some of the most compelling, vivid images. Much of what we’ve highlighted here are pictures of ordinary people: slow dancing, doing the Twist, moshing in the pit and moving mid-mambo.Images of choreographers and professional dancers — like Misty Copeland, our guest editor, whose commentary you see below — are also scattered throughout. In them, we find not just the highest elevation of the form, but a metaphor for possibility that extends far beyond the realm of dance. — Veronica ChambersBy Misty Copeland The way we dance shifts ever so slightly from generation to generation. I’ve been trying to study the subtle elements that make that moment come to life: How did women carry their bodies back then? I look at this photograph and I love her hair and the way she holds her head. You would never think twice about it when you’re living in that time.I look at this photograph and I think they don’t look very comfortable. They’re also wearing sneakers with their tutus and tights, which says a lot. This photograph feels so representative of how most black kids enter dance. What really gets me are the pink tights. Those tights are such a psychological thing that’s ingrained within the ballet culture: The fact that your skin doesn’t match the tights is a subconscious way of signaling to brown people that they don’t belong without ever having to say it.This one took my breath away. Geoffrey’s wife, Carmen de Lavallade, also an amazing dancer, is a good friend. What I didn’t know until I dug into the Times archives is that, from 1956 to 1958, Geoffrey danced for the Metropolitan Opera Ballet. In 1977, my company, the American Ballet Theater, took up residence at the Met. There was this connection between us that I didn’t even know.The moment that is captured with José Limón and the dancer watching him also struck a chord for me. I was a visual learner because I started so late. I joined A.B.T. and I still didn’t know certain names of steps. I only trained for four years, so that’s how I learned, by watching.In 1978, The Times did a piece about a dance party for single parents. The little girl in the center stole my heart. Every time I looked at her it was just, “Oh, my God.” Music was always on in my house. My mother grew up dancing — ballet, tap, jazz. But I don’t recall dancing with my mother. Dance was my private time. It was an escape from the chaos and traumas of my childhood. My way of expressing myself.Twyla Tharp once said, “The ballet needs to tell its own story in such a way it can be received without having to be translated into language.” It is the same with these photographs. There are captions that can inform, but they are not necessary. These photographs of dancers, like dance itself, can tell a hundred stories without uttering a single word.Misty Copeland is the first African-American female principal dancer with American Ballet Theater. One of the most famous dancers in the world, Copeland is credited with both broadening the audience for classical ballet and imbuing the art form with a renewed energy. Copeland’s repertoire includes a number of major roles, such as Odette/Odile in “Swan Lake,” Juliet in “Romeo and Juliet,” and the title role in “Giselle.” She makes her debut in Twyla Tharp’s “Deuce Coupe” in spring 2019.George Balanchine The choreographer George Balanchine built a legacy at New York City Ballet and was among those who made New York a ballet capital.At Baby Grand In a 1965 article headlined “Harlem at Night: Slumming Passe,” one “inveterate white Harlem-goer” was quoted as saying: “It’s a matter of curiosity. I go up because it’s ridiculous to be living in New York and not go to Harlem. It’s the vigor of the place, the vibrance, that gets you.”April Berry In 1989, The New York Times’s chief dance critic, Anna Kisselgoff, wrote that this tribute to Katherine Dunham was “one of Alvin Ailey’s most inspired ideas.”Public School Students This photo of New York City schoolchildren was taken in 1987 by the Times photojournalist Dith Pran, whose life under the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia inspired the film “The Killing Fields.”Martha Graham and Members of Her Company Standing to the right of the famed choreographer Martha Graham is the ballerina Sallie Wilson. In 1979, the Times dance critic Jennifer Dunning wrote, “In her quiet way, Sallie Wilson, a principal dancer with the American Ballet Theater, has etched herself indelibly on the consciousness of the New York balletgoing public.”Miss Ruth School of Dance This photo was taken by Bill Cunningham, whose writing was as artful as his photographs. “It is a rite of spring (and sometimes early summer), choreographed not by Balanchine but by parents and children and teachers in dance schools all across the country. It is the night of the annual dance concert.”El Avram In 1967, a Times reporter wrote, “El Avram is a downstairs bouillabaisse of Mediterranean condiments — an Israeli owner, an Armenian oud player, an Israeli-Arab chef in the kitchen and Greek, Italian, Spanish and French music in the air.”At Ipanema Alfonso A. Narvaez wrote in a 1975 article, “At the moment, the dance is the hustle and the Latin music is salsa (Spanish for sauce or gravy), which, depending on the cynicism of the observer, is either a brand new sound or a brand new name for music that has been around for years.”Nell’s In an interview for a story about the nightclub Nell’s, the Village Voice columnist Michael Musto told The Times: “I’ve been amazed for years that it has stayed open. It’s just always there, sort of like Mount Everest.”Anthrax Concert In 1993, in the story accompanying this photo, The Times Magazine reported: “It’s strictly skin on skin: torsos slam into one another, chests collide, heads recoil, noses bleed; clothing is ripped off, trampled underfoot, forgotten; bodies fall and disappear, sucked into the sweaty undertow. Occasionally a warrior is tossed above the crush and passed along from hand to hand. It’s unspeakably hot, often painful, certainly claustrophobic — all in all, just another night in the mosh pit.”Editor: Veronica Chambers; Photo Editor: Jessie Wender; Senior Staff Editor: Brian Thomas Gallagher; Print Designers: Fred Bierman, Carrie Gee, Jane Mitchell; Digital Design: Gabriel Gianordoli; Research: Nick Donofrio; Contributing Photo Editors: Anika Burgess and Karen Cetinkaya; Researcher, Photo Archive: Jeff Roth; Archival Assistant: Sarah Borell; Archival Scan Technicians: Shayla Corinne Black, Alexandra DiFiglia, Megan Paetzhold, Sam Richards, Mark Rubenstein, Perachya Sorscher; Special Projects: Heather Phillips, Dan Saltzstein, Talya Minsberg, Lauren Reddy, Justin Baek; Special Thanks: Monica Drake, Nakyung Han, Rachel Saltz, William O’Donnell, James Nieves, Michael Bevans, Sonny Figueroa, Alessandra Montalto, Patricia Wall, Karen Hanley, Jim Luttrell, Sean Ernst, NYT Art Production DepartmentRead the work of Past Tense, an archival storytelling project of The New York Times, as we explore more than six million photos in our files and tell the vivid stories they represent. Visit nytimes.com/pasttense and find us on Instagram @nytarchives.Zadie Smith: ‘All Dance Is a Discourse on Freedom’April 8, 2019California: State of ChangeNov. 9, 2018For One Night in 1965, the Supremes Brought the Two Detroits TogetherFeb. 13, 2019Josephine Premice and the Tightrope of Race and TalentDec. 26, 2018The Marvelous World of Mrs. Maisel, Through Vintage PhotosDec. 7, 2018Advertisement