AdvertisementSupported byBy Siobhan BurkeLong known for their passionate onstage partnership, the Russian ballerina Natalia Osipova and the American Ballet Theater principal David Hallberg are spending quality time together at City Center this week. “Natalia Osipova’s Pure Dance With David Hallberg” is a suite of solos and duets with these stars at its center, together and alone. Yet Ms. Osipova, a principal at the Royal Ballet in London, also uses the program to cultivate new partnerships: with other dancers and with choreographers she has handpicked to showcase the range of her artistry. In some cases, these rival the strength of the show’s most advertised pairing.Ms. Osipova and Mr. Hallberg bookend the program, which opened on Wednesday, appearing first in the main pas de deux from Antony Tudor’s “The Leaves Are Fading,” then in a ravishing six-minute ballet by Alexei Ratmansky, created for them last year. (A production of Sadler’s Wells, “Pure Dance” had its world premiere in London last fall.) With its elegiac sweep and opportunities for high drama — not squandered by either dancer — the Tudor excerpt served as a historical and stylistic anchor, before the evening moved into less traditional territory. (“Leaves” was made in 1975 for Ballet Theater, where Ms. Osipova has been a principal and frequent guest artist.)Trading point shoes for socks, Ms. Osipova returned in “Flutter,” by the Spanish choreographer Iván Pérez, danced with Jonathan Goddard. The title describes both her movement as the lights come up — a jittery scramble that carries her down and up the center of the stage — and the quality of the music, sections from Nico Muhly’s vocal collage “Mothertongue.” (The lighting, by Nigel Edwards, also builds to a flutter in the work’s dreamlike second half.) Mr. Pérez, in a program note, writes that Ms. Osipova approached him with a desire to “discover something new about herself,” and as she flings the fullness of her weight into her partner’s arms or sprawls out on the floor, resting for a few breaths, she seems to have achieved just that.As for unearthing new partnerships, it was Roy Assaf’s “Six Years Later,” danced with Jason Kittelberger, that proved most intriguing. While Mr. Goddard faded next to Ms. Osipova’s brightness, Mr. Kittelberger met her as an equal in an agitated relationship. The work follows them through a cycle of emotional phases, from what feels like tense estrangement to affectionate friendship and back. And though long-winded, it also uses repetition to its advantage at times, like when the two bump shoulders again and again, as if ensnared in a never-ending argument.In terms of choreographic invention, the evening’s two solos — the yearning “Ave Maria” for Ms. Osipova, by the Japanese choreographer Yuka Oishi; the brooding “In Absentia” for Mr. Hallberg, by the Danish choreographer Kim Brandstrup — paled in comparison to their finale together. Finding fresh possibilities in Sibelius’s familiar “Valse Triste,” Mr. Ratmansky tapped into the pair’s chemistry — and let it blossom. As Ms. Osipova dove repeatedly, with stormy abandon, into Mr. Hallberg’s arms, the two seemed to reach new heights of courage and trust.Natalia Osipova’s Pure Dance With David HallbergThrough Saturday at City Center, Manhattan; nycitycenter.org.Advertisement