AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter LibbeyThe Paul Taylor Dance Company, now without its founder, will move into the future by honoring its past. The company plans to celebrate the legacy of Taylor, who died in August  at 88, with a multiyear tour beginning in February, it announced on Monday.It also announced that Taylor’s final commission was a piece by Kyle Abraham, which is to have its premiere during the coming New York season at Lincoln Center.The tour, which is to begin at the Eisemann Center for the Performing Arts in Richardson, Tex., on Feb. 9, will continue throughout the year, with stops planned throughout the United States and Europe. Dates have been set only for this year, but Michael Novak, Mr. Taylor’s successor as the company’s artistic director, said the tour would continue into 2020 and, perhaps, into 2021.Mr. Novak, programming for the first time, has devised nine shows for the tour that include more than 20 works from Taylor’s seven-decade career. Each program has a particular focus — on classics or a phase of his career — and presenters will be able to choose which best suits their audiences. The program of early works, for example, features pieces from the early 1960s: “ Junction” (1961), “Tracer” (1962), “Fibers” (1961) and “Aureole” (1962).Mr. Novak said in an interview that selecting the dances was a process that he began by reviewing all 147 pieces Taylor choreographed. From these, he chose the pieces that were important to the company’s institutional history, to himself personally, to Taylor and to audiences.Capturing the breadth and diversity of Taylor’s output was essential for him, he said: “I felt like it was my duty as artistic director to pick the works that transformed the modern dance landscape and package those together in a way that would hopefully not just excite people but also remind them how vast Paul’s imagination was.”The season at Lincoln Center, Oct. 29 through Nov. 17, will feature Mr. Abraham’s piece set to a commissioned score by Jerome Begin, along with work by Pam Tanowitz and Margie Gillis, two of Taylor’s other late commissions for the company.Advertisement