AdvertisementSupported byBy Gia KourlasOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.RAPHAËLLE BOITEL at the Alexander Kasser Theater at Montclair State University in Montclair, N.J. (Feb. 9, 8 p.m.; Feb. 10, 3 p.m.; Feb. 14, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 17). As part of Peak Performances, Boitel, a contortionist and aerialist, presents the United States premiere of her philosophical “When Angels Fall,” which looks at the state of the environment using a blend of circus, dance and theater. This theatrical world, for which Tristan Baudoin designed the set and lighting, comes to life with objects including half-cranes, half-articulated arms, ropes and lamps and, of course, performers. As Boitel states in a press release, her company of acrobats “imagine a place where humanity, realizing its own fragility, clings to life.”973-655-5112, peakperfs.orgFRIDAYS AT NOON at the 92nd Street Y (Feb. 8, noon). Eva Yaa Asantewaa, a writer and the curatorial director at Gibney, presents “Into the Mystic,” an afternoon of dances that engage the psyche, the soul and the spirit. Here, she features works by Zavé Martohardjono and Iele Paloumpis, two choreographers who explore mysticism through dance. Martohardjono, a Southeast Asian gender-queer trans artist, looks at how healing practices and storytelling can be used in contemplating identity, while Paloumpi focuses on kinesthetic awareness, tarot and herbal medicine, among other practices.  212-415-5500, 92y.orgGALLIM DANCE at the Joyce Theater (Feb. 12-13, 7:30 p.m.; Feb. 14, 8 p.m.; through Feb. 17). After a year spent as the choreographer in residence at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Miller takes the lessons she learned and puts them into her latest work, “To Create a World,” which features an original score by Will Epstein. In the piece, Gallim explores the need to survive with movement that blends the virtuosic with the vulnerable and taps into internal sensations of pleasure and pain, regret and love, and control and abandon. 212-242-0800, joyce.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]RACHEL THORNE GERMOND PERFORMANCE COLLAGE at University Settlement (Feb. 14-16, 8 p.m.). This program of multimedia works incorporating video projection, performance and photography includes Germond’s “Tripod,” which explores fantasy and memory and features tripods placed throughout the stage. (They’re used as dance partners, among other things.) Along with Germond’s “Safety Dance,” a quartet inspired by William Golding’s “Lord of the Flies” and the films of Alfred Hitchcock, the program is capped by two premieres: “The Prudent Sky,” a duet for Germond and the spellbinding dancer Tasha Taylor, and “Shadow Box,” a collaboration with the video artist Charles Woodman. 800-838-3006, rachelthornegermond.comNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through March 3). “The Sleeping Beauty” begins performances on Wednesday, but before spells are cast and Aurora falls asleep for 100 years, there are several mixed-repertory programs up for grabs, including, on Friday, a one-time-only evening featuring the George Balanchine works “Agon” and “Orpheus,” followed by Jerome Robbins’s infectious and endlessly cool 1958 sneaker ballet “N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz.” Other picks include William Forsythe’s “Herman Schmerman,” Kyle Abraham’s “The Runaway” and Justin Peck’s latest, “Principia.” 212-496-0600, nycballet.comKATHY WESTWATER at New York Live Arts (Feb. 14-16, 7:30 p.m.). This contemporary choreographer, who has been experimenting in dance since 1996, presents “Rambler, Worlds Worlds a Part,” a joint production of Live Arts and Lumberyard Center for Film and Performing Arts. The recipient of Lumberyard’s 2017 Solange MacArthur Award for New Choreography, Westwater investigates the notion of pain as dancers react and celebrate to the music of the post-minimalist composer Julius Eastman. The performance will feature live music by Joseph Kubera, a collaborator of Eastman’s, as well as by Adam Tendler and M. Lamar, who plays an original work in tribute to the composer. 212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.orgAdvertisement