AdvertisementSupported byBy Gia KourlasOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BATTERY DANCE at Schimmel Center at Pace University (Feb. 28, 7:30 p.m.). This troupe, under the direction of Jonathan Hollander, presents an evening of repertoire featuring the premiere of Tadej Brdnik’s “The Red Line.” A former principal with the Martha Graham Dance Company, Brdnik sets his dance to music by the Syrian composer and clarinetist Kinan Azmeh. The program also includes the return of Hollander’s “Secrets of the Paving Stones” (2003) and “On Foot,” which was created by the dancers with Hollander’s guidance in 2017. Featuring the artwork of the Syrian-Armenian visual artist Kevork Mourad, the piece focuses on countries undergoing conflict. 212-346-1715, schimmelcenter.orgFARRUQUITO at the Town Hall (Feb. 22, 8 p.m.). This famed flamenco artist returns to New York for a one-night-only performance of “Farruquito,” which is based on his life. It has certainly been an eventful one: A star dancer, he served three years in prison for a hit-and-run accident in Seville, Spain. In the show, for which he serves as both choreographer and composer, he includes a tribute to his grandfather, the celebrated dancer Antonio Montoya Flores, or El Farruco. The evening also brings him back to the Town Hall, where, at the age of 18, he made his New York debut in 2001.212-997-6661, thetownhall.orgFJK DANCE at John Jay College Black Box Theater (Feb. 22, 6:30 p.m.). Formed by Fadi J. Khoury and Sevin Ceviker, this contemporary group blends Argentine tango, ballroom, jazz and Middle Eastern folkloric movement. For its Black Box series, which continues monthly through August, the company takes inspiration from its weekly site-specific performance workshops for NYC Health & Hospitals/Kings County. The program will highlight “Untold,” a multimedia work and art installation that combines ancient Middle Eastern aesthetics with contemporary ballet and ballroom dance. A discussion following the performance will touch upon what dance can do to improve mental health.615-810-2251, fjkdance.orgDANIEL GWIRTZMAN DANCE COMPANY at the 92nd Street Y (Feb. 22-23, 8 p.m.; Feb. 24, 3 p.m.). The Y’s Dig Dance series hosts Gwirtzman as he celebrates his company’s 20th anniversary with the premiere of “Intersections,” a work that pushes the boundaries of physicality as it explores the potential danger and beauty of intersections. On Sunday, the choreographer has designed an interactive family-friendly program for children ages 5 and up, “Welcome to the World of Dance,” which serves as an introduction to contemporary dance.212-415-5500, 92y.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]ICE THEATER OF NEW YORK at the Rink at Rockefeller Center (Feb. 27, 1 p.m.). This company led by Moira North, which showcases ice dancing as performance art, hosts an afternoon of figure skating as part of its City Skate Concert Series. In honor of Black History Month, the program features “Presence,” a solo for Theron James by the African-American figure skater and modern dance choreographer Deneane Richburg, of Brownbody. In her work, she draws on her cultural background to provide a framework for movement exploration; “Presence” investigates the energetic pathways and shapes of a black body gliding across the ice.212-929-5811, icetheatre.orgLIT at 100 Grand Dance (Feb. 22-23, 8 p.m.; Feb. 24, 5:30 p.m.). For the 19th installment of this series, which stands for “loft into theater,” the choreographers Bill Young and Colleen Thomas host a program of intimate works — new, remade or in progress — in an honest-to-goodness SoHo loft. There will be duets featuring Jamie Scott and Oluwadamilare Ayorinde, Burr Johnson and Lindsey Jones, and Lauren Ferguson and Gary Champi. In addition, Thomas revives her work “Damsel,” performed by Peter Chamberlin, as well as new material set to live music by Jo Morris. A party will follow. 212-925-6573, billyoung-colleenthomas.comJOHNNIE CRUISE MERCER/THE RED PROJECT NYC & ANGIE PITTMAN at Danspace Project (Feb. 28-March 2, 8 p.m.). In this joint program, two rising choreographers present new works. Mercer offers “(Process Memoir 4): The Word, the Spirit, and Little Rock,” a deconstruction and reconstruction of gospel music, black spiritual imagery and what press materials refer to as “physicalized other-hood through trance.” In “Came Up in a Lonely Castle,” Pittman, with her collaborator Anita Mullin, takes inspiration from the writing of Kevin Quashie — notably “The Sovereignty of Quiet: Beyond Resistance in Black Culture” — and soul line dancing to illuminate the subject of black expressiveness.866-811-4111, danspaceproject.orgNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through March 3). As City Ballet winds down its winter season with “The Sleeping Beauty” and a final week of mixed repertory, the new program in the mix is an all-George Balanchine one featuring “Prodigal Son” and “Liebeslieder Walzer.” In “Prodigal” — from 1929, it is the last of Balanchine’s works for Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes — the themes are sin and redemption, while in “Liebeslieder,” a two-act ballet, the dancers are joined onstage by the musicians and singers. As Balanchine said, “In the first act, it is the real people who are dancing. In the second act, it is their souls.”212-496-0600, nycballet.comAdvertisement