AdvertisementSupported byBy Roslyn SulcasIn an unusual excursion into a nontheatrical space, the New York City Ballet will perform at the Museum of Modern Art over three days in March, the museum announced on Wednesday. The performances will inaugurate MoMA’s exhibition “Lincoln Kirstein’s Modern” with excerpts from four seminal works by the choreographer George Balanchine.The exhibition, March 17-June 15, examines Kirstein’s extensive impact on American culture in the 1930s and ’40s, offering some 200 artworks alongside materials from the museum’s archive. The polymathic Kirstein,  a writer and curator who influenced the fields of dance, photography, painting, theater design, literature and architecture, is probably best known for founding New York City Ballet with Balanchine. It was Kirstein who discovered, persuaded and largely paid for Balanchine — a Russian émigré based in Paris — to come to New York in 1933. They would go on to establish the School of American Ballet and the troupe that in 1948 became  New York City Ballet.Eighteen dancers from the company will perform in the atrium space twice daily, March 16-18 (at noon and 3 p.m.), with the corps de ballet member Silas Farley introducing excerpts from “Concerto Barocco” (1941), “Orpheus” (1948), “The Four Temperaments” (1946) and “Agon” (1957). The choice of repertory, said Samantha Friedman, an associate curator at the museum, was connected to the exhibition’s offerings, like the original Kurt Seligmann costume designs for “Four Temperaments.” But the ballets, she said in an interview, “also tell a story about Kirstein and Balanchine.”Introducing live performance to the Kirstein exhibition seemed necessary, Ms. Friedman said: “From the beginning, we have thought about MoMA and New York City Ballet as Lincoln Kirstein’s two homes, and we felt a need to intertwine these stories.” Jodi Hauptman, a senior MoMA curator, added that while Kirstein’s role in establishing City Ballet was well known, he had also played an important part in MoMA’s early history, and had strongly believed that dance should be part of the museum’s programs.MoMA “became a site for research with a dance archive that he founded, and a department of dance and theater,” Ms. Hauptman said. “In at least one diary entry, he wrote about the museum as a potential site for the American Ballet he hoped to establish.” In recent years dance has become a frequent presence in museums; MoMA’s own recent exhibition “Judson Dance Theater: The Work is Never Done” featured performances of work by Steve Paxton, Yvonne Rainer, David Gordon and others.But Kirstein, Ms. Hauptman pointed out, “had been thinking about that long ago.”“On so many fronts, he was so prescient,” she added.Advertisement