AdvertisementSupported byBy Gia KourlasOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BALLET HISPÁNICO at the Joyce Theater (March 26-27, 7:30 p.m.; March 28, 8 p.m.; through March 31). This troupe offers three works: Along with the return of “Sombrerísimo,” Annabelle Lopez Ochoa’s exploration of identity — with hats — that has an all-female cast this season, the program is rounded out by two premieres that look at issues of migration, immigration and assimilation. “Homebound/Alaala,” by the Filipino-American choreographer Bennyroyce Royon, takes on topics that include female resilience and overcoming hardship, and Edwaard Liang’s “El Viaje,” set to music by Ralph Vaughan Williams, focuses on the Chinese diaspora. 212-242-0800, joyce.orgBATSHEVA DANCE COMPANY at BAM Howard Gilman Opera House (March 27-30, 7:30 p.m.). The Israeli company returns to New York with Ohad Naharin’s “Venezuela” — his first trip back to BAM since stepping down as the artistic director at Batsheva. Divided into two 40-minute acts and set to Gregorian chants, tango and rap, the esteemed Naharin explores what freedom of choice means today as he explores movement and the content it represents. One thing is certain: Gaga, Naharin’s rich movement language, will be front and center. 718-636-4100, bam.orgANN CARLSON AND RIRIE-WOODBURY DANCE COMPANY at the Alexander Kasser Theater at Montclair State University in Montclair, N.J. (March 28-29, 7:30 p.m.; through March 31). As part of Peak Performances, Carlson, a choreographer and performance artist, teams up with Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company for her evening-length “Elizabeth, the Dance.” In this poetic, humorous tribute to modern dance, Carlson looks at the history of the art form, as well as the layers of information that a dancer holds in her or his body, to delve into the theme of homage. 973-655-5112, peakperfs.orgDORRANCE DANCE at City Center (March 28-30, 8 p.m.). Michelle Dorrance presents her vibrant tap company in three different two-act programs featuring works not only by Dorrance, but also by the clown and actor Bill Irwin (“Harlequin & Pantalone”) and the veteran choreographer Brenda Bufalino (“Jump Monk”). Selections by Dorrance include a reimagining of “SOUNDspace,” originally created in 2013 at Danspace Project at St. Mark’s Church; “Jungle Blues,” set to music by Branford Marsalis; “Three to One”; and a yet-to-be-titled premiere. Clearly, she’s not one to rest, and we’re the better for it. 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]JUILLIARD SPRING DANCE at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater (March 27-29, 7:30 p.m.; through March 30). The dance department, led by the newly appointed Alicia Graf Mack, presents its spring program featuring Martha Graham’s “The Rite of Spring,” Bill T. Jones’s “D-Man in the Waters (Part I)” and Alejandro Cerrudo’s “Little Mortal Jump.” The former Graham company members Terese Capucilli and Christine Dakin staged and directed the primal and powerful “Rite” (1984) for this showcase. Jones’s “D-Man in the Waters,” named after the dancer Demian Acquavella, who died of AIDS in 1990, is a celebration of resiliency and hope. And Cerrudo offers a contemporary work set to music by Philip Glass, Max Richter, Tom Waits and the band Beirut, among others. 212-769-7406, juilliard.eduAKIKO KITAMURA at Japan Society (March 22-23, 7:30 p.m.). This Japanese choreographer presents “Cross Transit,” a multimedia dance work created in collaboration with the Cambodian visual artist Kim Hak, who contributes video, photos and narration. The piece looks at how Cambodia’s past can be preserved through the body. In this dance for six — the performers are from Cambodia and Japan — Kitamura incorporates contemporary dance, street-dance-inspired choreography and traditional martial arts to probe the future of Asia. 212-715-1258, japansociety.orgSTREB at Streb Lab for Action Mechanics (March 23, 5 p.m.; March 24, 3 p.m.; through May 12). Elizabeth Streb presents “Sea II: More Singular Extreme Actions,” a continually evolving one-hour show of several short works in which dancers, with the help of the choreographer’s precision equipment, defy gravity and physical limits. (She calls her company Streb Extreme Action for a reason.) Staged in an open setting with no separation between the viewers and the performers, the production is set up to encourage the audience to move as the action changes. 718-384-6491, streb.org NI’JA WHITSON/THE NWA PROJECT at Danspace Project (March 28-30, 8 p.m.). This Bessie Award-winning interdisciplinary artist and writer unveils “Oba Qween Baba King Baba,” which is inspired by Whitson’s experience as a child of a preacher and as a current practitioner of the Yoruba orisha tradition. Named after the Yoruba word “oba,” a genderless term that means “a king,” the work will be viewed from the balcony of St. Mark’s Church, where Danspace is based; at one time, this section of the church was set aside for congregants who were slaves. The production is presented by Danspace and Abrons Arts Center and uses movement, poetry, jazz, textile and video art to investigate how masculinity has influenced religion over time. 866-811-4111, danspaceproject.orgAdvertisement