AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Gia KourlasThe Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin has made a powerful — and positive — impact on the world of contemporary dance. His works have given American repertory companies something of value to perform, and that’s been a game-changer, which is particularly true for Hubbard Street Dance Chicago. Last week, the company presented its sixth work by the choreographer at the Joyce Theater.The company’s artistic director, Glenn Edgerton, previously directed Nederlands Dans Theater. Sometimes Hubbard Street can seem, to its detriment, like a Midwest branch of Nederlands, a contemporary troupe whose repertory can seem an indistinguishable blend of swishing, swirling bodies in socks.But Hubbard Street’s two-week run, which continues with a program of dances by the Canadian Crystal Pite — an associate choreographer with the Nederlands Dans Theater — opened strongly with Mr. Naharin’s “Decadance/Chicago,” created from excerpts from his previous works.It’s not the first “Decadance” that has come to town, but that’s no matter. Mr. Naharin makes each iteration new and relevant, even though in this version,  arranged for Hubbard Street and seen Sunday, there was some unevenness in the dancing. Mr. Naharin’s movement language, Gaga, is as much sensorial as it is a physical act, requiring muscular strength and suppleness in the joints to suddenly spring into the air, wilt in a backbend or crash to the floor.But even when the Hubbard Street dancers approached the choreography with more sharpness and sleekness than necessary, there was a rewarding side to watching their effort. Mr. Naharin’s choreography is not about mastery. It reveals the courage within grace: Is a dancer willing to fail?That the dance began with a group formation was fitting. As they sat, knelt and stood in a wedge arrangement, it was as if they were a band — all in it together. Keeping their lower bodies still, they bobbed their heads. Their faces wore manic smiles, and their arms, making angular, jagged shapes, moved in tandem while their lower halves remained stuck in place. Once free from their spots, the performers scattered and darted, leaping into the air in bouncing, electric jumps.Throughout the work, the women — who let the movement ride their bodies rather than push it out — had more dimensionality; Adrienne Lipson was consistently riveting for her daredevil clarity, and in the “Bolero” section, she and Connie Shiau, side by side, drew power from each other.There were sweet moments, too: After a dancer requested that the audience stand, he asked questions that determined who could sit down until only one person remained. The reason? It was her birthday. After a trip to the stage and a seated improvisation with two male dancers, in which she held her own, she returned to her seat — with a balloon as a gift.Mr. Naharin — whether in a solo, a synchronized group dance or a number involving the audience — exposes what it means to be human: It doesn’t matter that “Decadance” isn’t a wholly new creation. What remains fresh is its pulse, regardless of which dancer is dancing or who from the audience is plucked to join the show.If only the same were true of Ms. Pite’s contributions. The program features three works: “A Picture of You Falling,” “The Other You” and “Grace Engine,” which did a disservice to the Hubbard Street dancers. Suddenly, the performers, so vivid and individual in “Decadance,” became interchangeable.Both “A Picture of You” and “The Other You” are sections from a full-evening production exploring stories rooted in love, conflict and loss. In “A Picture of You,” danced by Jacqueline Burnett and Elliot Hammans, text by Ms. Pite illustrated the dancers’ movements, which told the tale of a breakup: “This is how you collapse. This is the sound of your heart hitting the floor.”In “The Other You,” Michael Gross and Andrew Murdock, with shorn hair and wearing similar black suits, appeared as doppelgängers or perhaps two sides of the same troubled man. With mimicking movements, they gazed at each other as if staring into a mirror. Speed and frozen moments were the hallmarks of the night, and “Grace Engine,” the program’s only ensemble work, continued on that track.The notion of a train was evoked both in the score and in the lines of dancers that extended across the space like tracks. There was a painterly quality to some of Ms. Pite’s formations, but it was all more of the same: A darkened stage with spotlights and choreography contrasting brittle acceleration with pensive languidness. It’s a style — skillful, glossy, overwrought — but what is its point of view? As Mr. Naharin’s “Decadance/Chicago” showed, a dance is more than moving bodies, but a journey that you want to experience over and over.Hubbard Street Dance Chicago Through Sunday at the Joyce Theater, Manhattan; joyce.org.Advertisement