AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ARMITAGE GONE! DANCE at Japan Society (April 12-13, 7:30 p.m.). In “Nonomiya,” a noh play from the 15th century, a ghost returns to haunt her former lover. That tale provides the starting point for Karole Armitage’s new work, “You Took a Part of Me,” which depicts the lingering passion and pain of past relationships. Armitage is known for her sharp application of ballet technique; here she also smooths and softens it, evoking Japanese calligraphy. Her staging, which she draws from noh conventions as well, includes a traditional mirror room that connects to the stage via a small bridge. Live music, composed by Reiko Yamada, is performed by Yuki Isami. 212-832-1155, japansociety.orgMERCE CUNNINGHAM at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (April 16, 7:30 p.m.). On Tuesday, Cunningham, one of the most influential and celebrated artists of the 20th century, would have turned 100 years old. That milestone, coming a decade after his death, will be commemorated concurrently in Los Angeles, New York and London with “Night of 100 Solos: A Centennial Event,” comprising short solo works from Cunningham’s 70-year career. In New York, the one-night-only performance will take place at BAM and feature 25 dancers in solos as short as 30 seconds. Each is a complete artistic statement, though, and a capsule of Cunningham’s heady mix of control and freedom. The event is sold out, but shortly before showtime, there will be a line at the box office for any standby tickets that become available. Performances in all three cities will be live-streamed at mercecunningham.org. 718-636-4100, bam.orgMERCE CUNNINGHAM CELEBRATION at the Joyce Theater (April 17, 7:30 p.m.; April 18-19, 8 p.m.; through April 21). It feels like we’ve been celebrating the centenary of Merce Cunningham’s birth for a while now, but the actual occasion happens in the coming week. And the Joyce has a birthday gift for us: three companies each presenting a seminal Cunningham work. Compagnie CNDC-Angers, based in France and run by Robert Swinston, a longtime Cunningham dancer and assistant, will perform “Suite for Five,” a meditative work from 1956. Salt Lake City’s Ballet West will do the 1958 classic “Summerspace,” and the Washington Ballet will contribute “Duets,” from 1980, featuring six colorfully clad couples. 212-242-0800, joyce.orgDANCES PATRELLE at New York Live Arts (April 12, 7 p.m.; April 13, 2 and 7 p.m.; April 14, noon). This local ballet troupe, founded and directed by Francis Patrelle, welcomes several notable guest stars to its spring season. In “Madame X,” named after John Singer Sargent’s famous painting, the New York City Ballet principal dancer Abi Stafford is the title character while her colleague Ask la Cour portrays Samuel Pozzi, Madame X’s philandering lover. In the solo “American Overture,” the sprightly Twyla Tharp dancer Reed Tankersley is Uncle Sam dancing to a Leonard Bernstein score. Patrelle’s new work, “The American Dream: It’s Only Business,” explores the experiences of three families of different socioeconomic classes. 212-691-6500, newyorklivearts.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MARIANA VALENCIA at the Chocolate Factory (April 18-20, 8 p.m.; through April 27). In her new solo “Bouquet,” Valencia plucks ideas, images and items from different parts of her life and bundles them together in an eclectic arrangement. Choreographically, she samples from her own past pieces, as well as from the work and style of Alvin Ailey, Trisha Brown and the postmodern performance artist Frank Conversano. Fake fruit, a piece of glass and a net give the space a personal specificity, as does a spoken-text drawing from Valencia’s own stories of when she was in her teens and early 20s. 718-482-7069, chocolatefactorytheater.orgYOUTH AMERICA GRAND PRIX at the David H. Koch Theater (April 17-19, 7 p.m.; through April 20). For two decades now, this student ballet competition has doled out scholarship money to talented young dancers under the age of 19. More important, it gives audiences a first look at the field’s future. It’s always an impressive glimpse. The evenings showcase different programs: Some are part of the competition, some are celebratory gala performances and some include professional dancers. The format favors bite-size variations — virtuosic solos and duets from the classical repertory that wow. 212-496-0600, davidhkochtheater.com‘YULI’ at the DGA New York Theater (April 16, 6:30 p.m.). Ballet fans may not have heard of a superstar named Yuli, but they’ve certainly heard of Carlos Acosta, a beloved longtime dancer with the Royal Ballet. Yuli, it turns out, was Acosta’s childhood nickname, and it is now also the title of a feature film based on his 2008 memoir, “No Way Home,” which dramatizes his (often reluctant) journey to ballet fame. The biopic, directed by Icíar Bollaín and featuring Acosta playing himself as an adult, concludes the 20th Havana Film Festival New York. hffny.com/2019/movie/yuli/Advertisement