“I’ll wait,” director saysGetty ImagesDirector Ava DuVernay says she is withholding her judgment about Jussie Smollett following reports that Chicago police believe the “Empire” star paid two men to orchestrate a hate assault on him.“Despite the inconsistencies, I can’t blindly believe Chicago PD,” DuVernay, who voiced support for Smollett after the attack, said on Twitter. “The department that covered up shooting Laquan McDonald over a dozen times? That operated an off-site torture facility? That one? I’ll wait. Whatever the outcome, this won’t stop me from believing others. It can’t.”DuVernay is referring to the murder of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald at the hands of Chicago officer Jason Van Dyke in 2014. Initially, Chicago PD reported that McDonald was carrying a folding knife and walking erratically at the time he was shot, and ruled that the shooting was justified. But dash cam footage released a year later showed Van Dyke shooting McDonald while he was walking away, leading to the officer being charged with murder.Also Read: Jussie Smollett's Attorneys Deny Attack Was a Hoax: 'He Has Now Been Further Victimized'A federal civil rights investigation conducted by the Department of Justice found that Chicago PD fostered a culture of “excessive violence” against people of color and “poor supervision” of officers.On Jan. 29, Smollett told Chicago police that he was assaulted by two men outside a Loews hotel, and that the two men called him “‘Empire’ f—t” and “‘Empire’ n—er'” while beating him, wrapping a rope around his neck, and covering him in bleach.But this weekend, CNN reported that new evidence suggests that Smollett paid two bodybuilder brothers to orchestrate the attack. Smollett’s attorneys have denied such claims.Also Read: Two Suspects in Jussie Smollett Case Under Arrest, Chicago Police Say“As a victim of a hate crime who has cooperated with the police investigation, Jussie Smollett is angered and devastated by recent reports that the perpetrators are individuals he is familiar with,” read the statement. “He has now been further victimized by claims attributed to these alleged perpetrators that Jussie played a role in his own attack. Nothing is further from the truth and anyone claiming otherwise is lying.”From the get-go, Donald Trump's presidency has been loaded up with scandals that have enraged his Democrat opponents and challenged the willingness of Beltway Republicans to stand by him. The growing pile of federal investigations and news reports reached a boiling point with Trump's firing of James Comey. In case you can't keep everything straight, here's what's happened so far and who in Trump's circle is being investigated.Paul Manafort: Trump's former campaign chair is currently being investigated as part of the FBI's look into potential connections between Trump's campaign and Russia's attempt to sway the presidential election. The Justice Department has subpoenaed Manafort's bank records to look for potential payments that he might have received from Russia during the campaign.Also Read: Trump’s Former Campaign Boss Paul Manafort Secretly Worked to ‘Benefit the Putin Government’ (Report)Also Read: Trump’s Former Campaign Boss Paul Manafort Secretly Worked to ‘Benefit the Putin Government’ (Report)Carter Page: The Washington Post reported in April that the FBI had obtained a warrant to monitor Trump's former campaign adviser as part of their Russia investigation. A dossier compiled by a former British intelligence officer and cited by House Dem Adam Schiff claimed that Page had met with Russian business executives linked to Putin during a visit to Moscow in July 2016. Also Read: Former Trump Adviser Carter Page Was Being Monitored by FBI (Report)Also Read: Former Trump Adviser Carter Page Was Being Monitored by FBI (Report)Michael Flynn: A retired three-star general, Flynn was selected as Trump's first national security adviser before he was fired in February. The dismissal came after it was discovered Flynn lied to Vice President Mike Pence about his interactions with Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak. The scandal surrounding Flynn deepened after the House Oversight Committee said they had reason to believe Flynn received payments from the Russian and Turkish governments.Also Read: DC Whiplash: Prosecutors Issue Grand Jury Subpoenas to Michael Flynn’s Associates (Report)Also Read: DC Whiplash: Prosecutors Issue Grand Jury Subpoenas to Michael Flynn’s Associates (Report)Conflicts of Interest: Since winning the election, ethics experts have criticized Trump for failing to provide a sufficient plan for addressing conflicts of interest between his presidency and his many business interests, whom he has handed over to his sons, Donald and Eric. The White House also faced criticism when senior adviser Kellyanne Conway promoted Ivanka Trump's merchandise on Fox News. The State Department also deleted a blog post promoting Trump's Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago. Trump has at least one lawsuit claiming he has violated the Emoluments Clause, which forbids the president from receiving foreign money through his businesses, something POTUS' critics say he can do by having foreign officials stay at his hotels.Russia Oval Office Visit: The Washington Post reported that Trump disclosed a highly classified intelligence to Russian officials during a White House visit, handing over a source that provided the U.S. with information on ISIS. The disclosure has reportedly frustrated the intelligence community, with whom the president has established a tense relationship. Also Read: Trump Admits Sharing Terrorism Intel With Russia: 'I Have the Absolute Right'Also Read: Trump Admits Sharing Terrorism Intel With Russia: 'I Have the Absolute Right'Jeff Sessions: After admitting he had not disclosed meetings with a Russian ambassador during the election to Congress, the former Alabama senator and current Attorney General recused himself from any investigations into Trump-Russia connections. After Comey's firing, 11 Senate Democrats, including Elizabeth Warren, asked the Justice Dept. to investigate whether Sessions had violated his recusal pledge after Trump announced he had consulted Sessions on firing the FBI director.James Comey: The former FBI Director Comey has claimed that Trump asked to end the bureau's investigation into Michael Flynn in private meetings that have raised concerns about possible obstruction of justice -- especially since the president's team gave conflicting accounts of the reasoning for Comey's dismissal in May. Also Read: Where Are the Republican Lawmakers, White House Surrogates to Defend Trump on TV Since Comey Memo Broke?Also Read: Where Are the Republican Lawmakers, White House Surrogates to Defend Trump on TV Since Comey Memo Broke?The first four months of Trump’s presidency have been loaded with scandalFrom the get-go, Donald Trump's presidency has been loaded up with scandals that have enraged his Democrat opponents and challenged the willingness of Beltway Republicans to stand by him. The growing pile of federal investigations and news reports reached a boiling point with Trump's firing of James Comey. In case you can't keep everything straight, here's what's happened so far and who in Trump's circle is being investigated.