TheWrap Oscar Magazine: “It felt like the next phase in inclusiveness, having not just people of color in charge of departments but women of color,” Carter saysA version of this story about Hannah Beachler and Ruth E. Carter appeared in the Down to the Wire issue of TheWrap’s Oscar magazine. When it was released last year, “Black Panther” earned worldwide acclaim for assembling the most talented cast of black actors ever seen in a blockbuster. It was hailed as a game-changer for Hollywood diversity, and the trend-setting on Ryan Coogler’s Marvel film was being made behind the camera as well.“It felt like the next phase in inclusiveness, having not just people of color in charge of departments but women of color,” said costume designer Ruth E. Carter, who with her third nomination is now tied with Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer as the most-nominated African-American woman in Oscar history. (Her previous nods came for 1992’s “Malcolm X” and 1997’s “Amistad.”)“Sometimes it’s hard to change people’s mindset,” Carter said. “Women still have to fight to show people that we know what we’re doing. That change is still in the works, but at least there’s more of us.”Also Read: 'BlacKkKlansman' Producer Jason Blum on Why This Oscar Nomination 'Feels More Fun'Meanwhile, Hannah Beachler became the first black woman in the Oscars’ 91-year history to be nominated for production design. To get there, Beachler coordinated with Coogler and all the other design departments to turn Wakanda into a living, breathing world. Among those she worked with was Carter, best known for her longtime collaboration with Spike Lee.“We talked about everything — the stories behind our ideas, the aesthetics as it related to characters, sets, tribes, places and scenes,” Beachler said. “I would go into Ruth’s shop once a week or so, and she’d walk me through and we’d talk about the thousands of garments, jewelry, etc. It was about constant communication, constant sharing of ideas with each other, the director and producers. That’s how we made it work — by letting each other into our unique processes.”Through their combined work, the “Black Panther” team built a “Wakanda Bible” that told the history and culture of Wakanda and its place in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The scope of their work can be seen in a single shot, when T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman) arrives at Warrior Falls to officially become king of Wakanda. Carter had to design dozens of outfits for actors playing members of the five tribes of the kingdom, and the inspirations came from tribes all over Africa.Also Read: 'Cold War' Director Pawel Pawlikowski Is a First-Time Nominee Who Already Has an Oscar at Home“It was one of the last scenes on the shooting schedule, and we were all exhausted,” Carter said. “But I knew this scene was important because Ryan told us this scene needed to be glorious. I scheduled fittings around my normal schedule, and I would have actors come in to be sized up and I’d compare it to my research.”“Someone would come in and I’d take one look and say, ‘You look like a perfect Masai warrior.’ And they would tell me, ‘Well, I was told to show up as a Himba,’ and I’d say, ‘No, no, wrong, you’re Masai.'”Beachler took her design inspirations a step further, not just thinking of where the architectural designs for Wakanda’s buildings might come from but also how they’re built. This was particularly important when designing the home of the Jabari, the one Wakandan tribe that has shunned the nation’s technological advancements. There, wood is emphasized over metal, so Beachler took inspiration not from Africa, but from Japan.Also Read: How 'If Beale Street Could Talk' Composer Nicholas Britell Found the Sound of Love