Here’s the list of ABC, CBS, FOX, CW and NBC projects in contention to go to seriesGetty ImagesIt’s pilot season — when broadcast networks decide which of dozens of prospective shows should become full-fledged series.TheWrap’s complete network pilot guide will keep you up to speed on the status of every project under consideration by ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC. In cases where they’ve already ordered a show to series, we’ll say so.Check back often for regular updates.ABC: Comedy / DramaCBS: Comedy / DramaThe CW: DramaFox: Comedy / DramaNBC: Comedy / Drama
ABC COMEDYHAPPY ACCIDENT
Writer(s): Jon Pollack, Abraham Higginbotham
Director: Kat Coiro
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/ABC Studios
Logline: Two Pittsburgh families — a father with three adult daughters, and a hotel lounge singer with her med student son — are forced together after a decades-old secret is revealed. (Single camera)
Cast: Matt Walsh, Joanna Garcia Swisher, Vanessa Williams, Elliot Knight, Kether Donohue, Jessie Pinnick, Robert SmithNANA
Writer(s): Lon Zimmet
Producer(s): Ted Melfi, Kimberly Quinn, Andrew Kosove, Broderick Johnson, Laura Lancaster
Director: Andy Ackerman
Studio: 20th Century Fox/ABC Studios
Logline: After the death of his wife, an obsessive, overprotective dad is forced to invite his brash and bawdy mother-in-law – Nana (Katey Sagal) – into his home to help raise the two granddaughters she barely knows. (Multi-camera hybrid)
Cast: Katey Sagal, Ben Lawson, Kimberly Quinn, Gemma Allen, Bill Bellamy, Jolie Hoang-RappaportUNITED WE FALL
Writer(s): Julius ‘Goldy’ Sharpe
Producer(s): Julia Gunn, Seth Gordon
Studio: Sony Pictures Television/ABC Studios
Logline: A profoundly realistic, multi-cultural family sitcom that shows how, when two people with young children and overzealous extended families truly love each other, barely anything is possible. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Will Sasso as Bill Ryan, Christina Vidal, Jane Curtin, Jason Michael SnowUNTITLED HANNAH SIMONE PROJECT
Writer(s): Hannah Simone, Matt Fusfeld, Alex Cuthbertson
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: Hannah and her Indian-American immigrant father have always been close, but after she admits to herself that she’s in a dead-end job and he reveals his marriage is over, they’re starting over together and each finding a new path. This new chapter will either make them crazy close…or just crazy. (Single camera)
Cast: Hannah Simone, Jane Leeves, Alanna Ubach, Deniz Akdeniz, Liza Treyger, Hank ChenUNTITLED JESSICA GAO
Writer(s): Jessica Gao
Producer(s): Brian Grazer, Francie Calfo, Samie Kim Falvey (Imagine)
Studio: ABC Studios/Imagine Television Studios/CBS TV Studios
Logline: The series is about Janet Zhao, a first generation Chinese-American woman who struggles to set healthy boundaries with her crazy, exhausting family. When her wealthy grandmother dies and names Janet the sole inheritor, she suddenly finds herself the unwilling new matriarch of the family she’s spent her life trying to keep at arm’s length. (Single camera)
Cast: Holly Chou, Cindy Cheun, Stephen Park, Kelly Hu, Helen Hong, Ki Hong Lee, Ashley Park, John GemberlingUNTITLED LESLIE ODOM JR. PROJECT
Writer(s): Saladin Patterson
Producer(s): Kerry Washington, Pilar Savone, Touré Roberts, Sarah Jakes-Roberts
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: Inspired by real life progressive pastors Touré & Sarah Roberts, the show revolves around Omari (Leslie Odom Jr.) & Hope who together run a modern ministry and share an even more eclectic and chaotic home life with a combined 4 children. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Leslie Odom Jr., Kelly Jenrette, Alexis Fields, Hailey Kilgore, Lilah Richcreek, Milan Carter, Kezii Curtis, Brandon Severs, Somali Rose.WOMAN UP
Writer(s): Zoe Lister-Jones
Producer(s): Lister-Jones, Liz Meriwether, Jason Winer, Jon Radler
Studio: 20th /ABC Studios, in association with Small Dog Picture Company, Ms. Lister Films
Logline: Two former teen Moms have worked their asses off to see their daughters all the way through high school graduation. And now, at 35, they’re ready to make up for the youth they never had. (Single camera.)
Cast: Tawny Newsome, Mary Elizabeth Ellis, Abby Quinn, Gabrielle Elyse, Kym Whitley, Leon ThomasBack to TopAlso Read: ABC Orders Pilots for 'New York Undercover' Reboot, Zoe-Lister Jones/Liz Meriwether Sitcom
ABC DRAMATHE BAKER AND THE BEAUTY
Writer(s): Dean Georgaris
Producer(s): Avi Nir, Alon Shtruzman, Rachel Kaplan, Peter Traugott, Assi Azar
Director: David Frankel
Studio: Universal Television, ABC Studios
Logline: The Baker and The Beauty tells the story of the unlikely romance between a blue-collar baker and an international superstar. Theirs is a relationship that not only upends their own lives, but the lives of their two very different families. Based on the original Israeli series The Baker and The Beauty created by Assi Azar and directed by Oded Ruskin.
Cast:Victor Rasnuk, Nathalie Kelley, Carlos Gomez, Dan Bucatinsky, Lisa Vidal, David Del Rio, Belissa Escobedo, Michelle VeintimillaHEART OF LIFE
Writer(s): Ben Queen
Producer(s): John Mayer, Melvin Mar, Jake Kasdan, Paul Weitz
Director: Anne Fletcher
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/ABC Studios
Logline: Inspired by John Mayer’s hit song, HEART OF LIFE follows two sets of adult siblings from wildly different worlds who discover they’re related and must reassess everything they thought they knew about their shared father. As they explore the mystery of their separate childhoods, they’ll experience the difficulty in overcoming the sins of the past, and learn the joys of reuniting with long-lost family.
Cast: Harry Shum Jr., Katie Findlay, Dave Annable, Jessica Stroup, Nick ThuneTHE HYPNOTIST’S LOVE STORY
Writer(s): Katie Wech
Producer(s): Heather Graham; David Hoberman, Todd Lieberman, Laurie Zaks of Mandeville Television; Liane Moriarty
Director: Francesca Gregorini
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: After a string of failed romances, successful hypnotherapist Ellen is optimistic about her current boyfriend. But then he reveals a disturbing truth: a stalker ex-girlfriend (Graham) has been following him for years. Ellen finds herself intrigued – and oddly thrilled by the stalker, entirely unaware that they’ve already met. Based on the bestselling book by Liane Moriarty (Big Little Lies).
Cast: Heather Graham, Julie Rylance, Adan Canto, Liza Lapira, Nathaniel Buescher, Jane SeymourNEW YORK UNDERCOVER
Writer(s): Dick Wolf, Ben Watkins
Producer(s): Arthur W. Forney, Peter Jankowski
Director: Anthony Hemingway
Studio(s): Universal Television/ABC Studios
Logline: It’s still Hip Hop but New York City has changed. Picking up 20 years after the end of the iconic series that changed the face of TV cop dramas, NEW YORK UNDERCOVER will follow detectives Nat Gilmore and Melissa Ortiz as they investigate the city’s most dangerous criminals from Harlem to Battery Park.
Cast: Malik Yoba, Lauren Luna Velez, Otmara Marrero, Toby Sandeman, Anna Enger, Octavio Pizano, MC LyteNYPD BLUE
Writer(s): Matt Olmstead, Nick Wootton
Producer(s): Dayna Bocho
Director: Jesse Bocho
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/ABC Studios
Logline: The return of NYPD Blue follows Andy Sipowicz’s son, Theo, as he tries to earn his detective shield and work in the 15th squad while investigating his father’s murder.
Cast: Alona Tal, Kim Delaney, Bill Brochtrup, Fabien Frankel, Ashley Thomas, Sofia Barclay, Rick GomezSTUMPTOWN
Writer(s): Jason Richman
Producer(s): Ruben Fleischer, Dave Bernad, Greg Rucka, Matthew Southworth, Justin Greenwood
Director: James Griffiths
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: Inspired by the graphic novels, Stumptown follows Dex Parios, a strong, assertive, and unapologetically sharp-witted army veteran working as a P.I. in Portland, Oregon. With a complicated personal history and only herself to rely on, she solves other people’s messes with a blind eye toward her own.
Cast: Cobie Smulders, Mark Webber, Cole Sibus, Michael Ealy, Camryn Manheim, Tantoo Cardinal, Adrian MartinezTRIANGLE
Writer(s): Jon Feldman, Sonny Postiglione
Producer(s): Jen Gwartz
Director: McG
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: What if the Bermuda Triangle was not a watery grave in the middle of the ocean, but a land lost in time that has trapped travelers over the course of human history? When a family is shipwrecked in this strange land, they must band together with a group of like-minded inhabitants — from throughout history — to survive and somehow find a way home.
Cast: Mike Vogel, Sarah Catherine Hook, Matt Passmore, Edwin Hodge, Mallory JansenUNTIL THE WEDDING
Writer(s): Becky Mode
Producer(s): Sarah Timberman, Carl Beverly, Alon Aranya, Nelly Feld, Avi Zvi, Ami Amir
Director: Susannah Grant
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: Based on the acclaimed Israeli format, UNTIL THE WEDDING is the story of how one couple’s decision to get married can affect everyone in their lives. The show will explore the intimate relationships of a group of friends/family as they are forced to reckon with their own romantic lives and come to terms with the realities of love and marriage.
Cast: E.J. Bonilla, Olivia Thirlby, Britt Lower, Trent Garrett, Juani Feliz, Christian Coulson, Lisa Colon-Zayas, Vered Blonstein, Michael Stahl-David, Michael Benjamin Washington, Christian BorleUNTITLED HANK STEINBERG/CURTIS “50 CENT” JACKSON PROJECT
Writer(s): Hank Steinberg
Producer(s): Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson, Isaac Wright, Jr., Doug Robinson, Alison Greenspan
Director: George Tillman, Jr.
Studio: Sony Pictures Television/ABC Studios
Logline: A serialized legal and family drama about a prisoner who becomes a lawyer, litigating cases for other inmates while fighting to overturn his own life sentence for a crime he didn’t commit. His quest for freedom is driven by his desperate desire to get back to the family he loves and reclaim the life that was stolen from him. The show will also, through the window of his ferocious struggle and his complicated relationship with a progressive female prison warden, examine the flaws and challenges in our penal and legal systems.
Cast: Nicholas Pinnock, Indira Varma, Joy Bryant, Boris McGiver, Tyla Harris, Mary Stuart Masterson, Dorian MissickBack to TopAlso Read: ABC Picks Up Heather Graham-Led 'Hypnotist's Love Story' Drama Pilot From 'Big Little Lies' Author
CBS COMEDYBOB HEARTS ABISHOLA
Writer(s): Chuck Lorre, Eddie Gorodetsky, Al Higgins, Gina Yashere
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: After having a heart attack, a man falls in love with his Nigerian nurse and sets his sights on getting her to give him a chance. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Billy Gardell, Folake Olowofoyeku, Christine Ebersole, Maribeth Monroe, Shola Adewusi, Barry Shabaka Henley, Matt Jones, Travis Wolfe Jr.BROKE
Writer(s): Alex Herschlag
Producer(s): Jennie Snyder Urman, Joanna Klein, Ben Silverman, Guillermo Restrepo, Gonzalo Cilley and Maria Lucia Hernandez Frieri, Jaime Camil
Studio:: CBS Television Studios
Logline: When an outrageously wealthy trust fund baby is cut off by his father, he and his wife move into her estranged sister’s Reseda condo, forcing the two siblings to reconnect. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Jamie Camil, Natasha Leggero, Pauley PerretteCAROL’S SECOND ACT
Writer(s): Emily Halpern, Sarah Haskins
Producer(s): Patricia Heaton, Adam Griffin, David Hunt, Rebecca Stay, Aaron Kaplan, Dana Honor
Director: Pam Fryman
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: After raising her two children and retiring from teaching, Carol Chambers embarks on a unique second act: she’s going to become a doctor. (Multi-camera)
Cast:Patricia Heaton , Kyle MacLachlan, Sabrina Jalees, Jean-Luc Bilodeau, Ito Aghayere, Bonnie DennisonTHE EMPEROR OF MALIBU
Writer(s): Kevin Kwan, David Sangalli
Producer(s): Michelle Nader, Christina Lee, Danielle Stokdyk
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: When the son of a Chinese billionaire announces his engagement to an American woman, his outrageous family descends upon the couple to win their son back and test drive the American dream. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Ken Jeong, Deborah S. CraigOUR HOUSE
Writer(s): Brendan O’Brien
Producer(s): Nick Stoller, Conor Welch
Studio: Sony Pictures Television/CBS Television Studios
Logline: A devoted mom and dad are committed to raising their children with the love and support the mom never got as a kid, but discover how difficult that is with her insane parents and siblings back in the picture. (Hybrid)
Cast: Katherine Heigl, Malcolm BarrettTHE UNICORN
Writer(s): Bill Martin, Mike Schiff
Producer(s): Aaron Kaplan, Dana Honor, Wendi Trilling, Peyton Reed
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A widower is eager to move on from the most difficult year of his life, only to realize he’s utterly unprepared to raise his two daughters on his own, and equally unprepared for the dating world where, to his shock, he’s suddenly a hot commodity. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Walton Goggins, Rob Corddry, Michaela Watkins, Omar Benson Miller, Maya Lynn RobinsTHE US PROJECT (f.k.a. THE STORY OF US)
Writer(s): Mike Royce
Producer(s): Nick Stoller, Conor Welch
Director: Pam Fryman
Studio: Sony Pictures Television/CBS Television Studios
Logline: A story told through interviews and vignettes spanning 10 years, about how an unlikely couple becomes an unlikely family. (Hybrid)
Cast: Parker Young, Laura Marano, Vanessa Marano, Elizabeth Alderfer, David WaltonTO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
Writer(s): Mike Metz
Producer(s): Gail Berman
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: With the help of his group of friends, Evan sets out to accomplish a list of challenges he wrote for himself years ago in an effort to turn around his banal life. (Hybrid)
Cast: Michael Angarano, Briga Heelan, Raymond Ablack, Michael Cassidy, Taylor Dearden, Ana VillafaneBack to Top
CBS DRAMAALIVE (f.k.a. FRANKENSTEIN)
Writer(s): Jason Tracey
Producer(s): Rob Doherty
Director: Uta Briesewitz
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A San Francisco homicide detective is mysteriously brought back to life after being killed in the line of duty, but as he resumes his old life and he and his wife realize he isn’t the same person he used to be, they zero in on the strange man behind his resurrection – Dr. Victor Frankenstein.
Cast: Saidah Arrika Ekulona, Katrina Law, Ryan Phillippe, Aaron StatonCOURTHOUSE
Writer(s): Greg Spottiswood
Producer(s): Leonard Goldstein, Mike Robin
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: A show that pulls back the curtain on the court system and follows the dedicated, chaotic, hopeful, and sometimes absurd lives of the judges, assistant district attorneys, and public defenders as they work with bailiffs, clerks, cops and jurors to bring justice to the people of Los Angeles.
Cast: Jessica Camacho, Wilson Bethel, J. Alex Brinson, Marg Helgenberger, Simone MissickEVIL
Writer(s): Robert King & Michelle King
Producer(s): Liz Glotzer
Director: Robert King
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A series about the battle between science and religion, EVIL focuses on a skeptical female clinical psychologist who joins a priest-in-training and a blue-collar contractor as they investigate supposed miracles, demonic possessions, and other extraordinary occurrences to see if there’s a scientific explanation or if something truly supernatural is at work.
Cast: Katja Herbers, Mike Colter, Aasif Mandvi, Michael EmersonTHE REPUBLIC OF SARAH
Writer(s): Jeff King
Producer(s) Leo Pearlman, Jeff Grosvenor, Marc Webb
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A small New Hampshire town is thrust onto the world stage when the discovery of a valuable resource within its borders compels the residents to declare themselves an independent nation, setting the unlikely young mayor and her cabinet of inexperienced locals on the path of running a brand new country.
Cast: Sarah Drew, Jonathan Slavin, Carlos Leal, Kirsten Nelson, James Lesure, Kimberly Guerrero, Daniel Ings, Annie FunkeSURVEILLANCE
Writer(s): David C. White
Producer(s): Matt Reeves
Director: Patricia Riggen
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/CBS Television Studios.
Logline: A spy thriller about around the head of communications for the NSA, a charming operative who finds her loyalties torn between protecting the government’s secrets and her own.
Cast: Sophia Bush, Dennis Haysbert, Catalina Sandino Moreno, Matthew Modine, Allen Leech, Raphael Acloque, Nick Blood, Spencer Moss, Tina Huang, Judith Scott, Brian Markinson, Catherine CurtinTOMMY (f.k.a. NANCY)
Writer(s): Paul Attanasio
Producer(s): Darryl Frank, Justin Falvey
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: When a former high-ranking NYPD officer becomes the first female Chief of Police for Los Angeles, she uses her unflinching honesty and hardball tactics to navigate the social, political, and national security issues that converge with enforcing the law.
Cast: Edie Falco, Michael Chernus, Adelaide Clemens, Russel G. Jones, Olivia Lucy Phillip, David Fierro, Joseph Lyle TaylorUNDER THE BRIDGE
Writer(s): Rina Mimoun
Producer(s): Jerry Bruckheimer, Jonathan Littman, KristieAnne Reed
Director: Vic Mahoney
Studio: CBS Television Studios in association with Jerry Bruckheimer Television
Logline: When a scandal rocks the medical practice she runs with her husband and their friends, a surgeon rises to the occasion and takes the lead in trying to mend both the practice and her own marriage.
Cast: David Ajala, Jennifer Morrison, Sarayu Blue, Justin Kirk, Reggie LeeBack to TopAlso Read: Michael B Jordan Takes a Shot to Avoid Telling Fallon What He's Thinking About Tessa Thompson (Video)
CW DramaBATWOMAN
Writer(s): Caroline Dries
Producer(s): Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schechter, Geoff Johns
Director: Marcos Siega
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: Armed with a passion for social justice and a flair for speaking her mind, Kate Kane soars onto the streets of Gotham as Batwoman, an out lesbian and highly trained street fighter primed to snuff out the failing city’s criminal resurgence. But don’t call her a hero yet. In a city desperate for a savior, Kate must overcome her own demons before embracing the call to be Gotham’s symbol of hope.
Cast: Ruby Rose, Camrus Johnson, Meagan Tandy, Nicole Kang, Dougray Scott, Elizabeth Anweis, Rachel SkarstenGLAMOROUS
Writer(s): Jordon Nardino
Producer(s): Damon Wayans Jr., Kameron Tarlow
Director: Eva Longoria
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A gender non-conforming recent high school graduate lands the gig of a lifetime interning at a cosmetics company whose products he panned on YouTube.
Cast: Ben J. Pierce, Brooke Shields, Jane Payton, Pierson Fode, Peyton List, Susan SantiagoJANE THE NOVELA
Writer(s): Valentina Garza
Producer(s): Gina Rodriguez, Jennie Snyder Urman, Ben Silverman, Joanna Klein, Emily Gipson, Jorge Granier, Gary Pearl
Director: Brad Silberling
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: A telenovela anthology series in the tradition of JANE THE VIRGIN, where each season is based on a different fictional novel “written by” Jane Villanueva and narrated by the author herself. The first installment takes place at a Napa Valley Vineyard, where family secrets (and family members) don’t stay buried for long.
Cast: Jacqueline Grace Lopez, Gina Rodriguez, Marcia Cross, Hunter Parrish, Ivonne Coll, Remy Hii, Benito Martinez, Holland RodenKATY KEENE
Writer(s): Robert Aguirre-Sacasa, Michael Grassi
Producer(s): Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schechter, Jon Goldwater
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: A “Riverdale” spinoff, “Katy Keene” follows the lives and loves of four iconic Archie Comics characters — including fashion legend-to-be Katy Keene — as they chase their twenty-something dreams in New York City. This musical dramedy chronicles the origins and struggles of four aspiring artists trying to make it on Broadway, on the runway and in the recording studio.
Cast: Lucy Hale, Ashleigh Murray, Jonny Beauchamp, Julia Chan, Camille Hyde, Lucien LaviscountTHE LOST BOYS
Writer(s): Heather Mitchell
Producer(s): Rob Thomas, Dan Etheridge, Mike Karz, Bill Bindley, Rebecca Franko
Director: Catherine Hardwicke
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: Welcome to sunny seaside Santa Carla, home to a beautiful boardwalk, all the cotton candy you can eat…and a secret underworld of vampires. After the sudden death of their father, two brothers move to Santa Carla with their mother, who hopes to start anew in the town where she grew up. But the brothers find themselves drawn deeper and deeper into the seductive world of Santa Carla’s eternally beautiful and youthful undead.
Cast: Tyler Posey, Kiele Sanchez, Medalion Rahimi, Dakota Shapiro, Cheyenne Haynes, Haley Tju, Sarah Hay, Rio Mangini, Del ZamoraUNTITLED NANCY DREW PROJECT
Writer(s): Noga Landau, Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage
Producer(s): Lis Rowinski, Melinda Hsu Taylor
Director: Larry Teng
Studio: CBS Television Studios
Logline: Set in the summer after her high school graduation,18-year-old Nancy Drew thought she’d be leaving her hometown for college, but when a family tragedy holds her back another year, she finds herself embroiled in a ghostly murder investigation — and along the way, uncovers secrets that run deeper than she ever imagined.
Cast: Kennedy McMann, Leah Lewis, Tunji Kasim, Maddison Jaizani, Alex Saxon, Freddie Prinze Jr., Alvina AugustBack to Top
FOX COMEDYADAM & EVE
Writer(s): Jon Beckerman
Producer(s): Claude Meunier, Luc Wiseman
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: Based on the French-Canadian format, ADAM & EVE follows one couple at three stages of their relationship — young and passionate, middle-aged with kids, and navigating retirement. It’s a comedy about the big questions: What makes a marriage last? Do people ever really change? And, after 40 years together, why can’t we pick a place for dinner without it turning into a whole, you know, “thing?” (Single camera)
Cast: Odette Annable, Ryan HansenBLESS THE HARTS — ordered straight-to-series
Writer(s): Emily Spivey
Producer(s): Phil Lord, Christopher Miller, Seth Cohen, Kristen Wiig
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: BLESS THE HARTS follows a group of Southerners who are always broke as a joke, and struggling for the American dream of status and wealth. What they don’t realize is that they’re already rich, in friends, family and laughter. (Animated)
Cast: Kristen Wiig, Maya Rudolph, Jillian Bell, Ike BarinholtzDUNCANVILLE — ordered straight-to-series
Writer(s): Mike Scully & Julie Scully
Producer(s): Amy Poehler, Dave Becky
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/Universal Television
Logline: DUNCANVILLE follows Duncan, a spectacularly average 15-year-old boy, along with his friends and family. His high-strung mom, Annie, constantly is trying to prevent her son from ruining his life.
Cast: Amy Poehler, Rashida Jones, Wiz KhalifaGENIUSES (W.T.)
Writer(s): Lon Zimmet
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: A family comedy about a blue-collar couple in South Jersey trying to get by and raise four kids, three of whom just happen to be certified geniuses. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Maggie Lawson, Jason Biggs, Connor Kalopsis, Tisha Campbell-Martin, Jack Stanton, Ashley BoettcherPATTY’S AUTO
Writer(s): Darlene Hunt
Producer(s): Elizabeth Banks, Max Handelman, Patrice Banks
Director: Betsy Thomas
Studio: Brownstone Productions/Warner Bros. Television
Logline: Inspired by Patrice Banks’ Girls Auto Clinic (an auto repair shop with all female mechanics), Patty’s Auto is an ensemble comedy centering on Patty and the eclectic women who work for her. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Carra Patterson, Joanna Adler, Sarah Levy, Paola Lázaro, Kyla Pratt, Jonathan SadowskiRICHARD LOVELY
Writer(s): Billy Finnegan
Producer(s): Kat Coiro
Director: Alex Hardcastle
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: Richard Lovely is the disgruntled author of the best-selling children’s book series, Mr. Mouse. He doesn’t hate children, but rather just everything about them. After a publicity fiasco involving an unexpectedly savvy 9-year-old kid, Mr. Mouse appears in Richard’s real life as he is forced into an unlikely father/son relationship that will change his life forever. (Single camera)
Cast: Thomas Lennon, Mason Shneiderman, Wendie Malick, Nicole Sun, Asif Ali, Nicole RichieBack to TopAlso Read: NBC Orders Drama Pilots From Paul Feig, 'Kevin (Probably) Saves the World' Creators
FOX DRAMADEPUTY
Writer(s): Will Beall
Producer(s): Chris Long
Director: David Ayer
Studio: Entertainment One, Cedar Park producing
Logline: Deputy Bill Hollister is a career lawman who’s very comfortable kicking down doors and utterly lost in a staff meeting. But when the LA County Sheriff drops dead, Bill becomes acting sheriff of Los Angeles County, in charge of 10,000 sworn deputies policing a modern Wild West.
Cast: Stephen Dorff, Yara Martinez, Brian Van Holt, Siena Goines, Jasmine Kaur, Shane Paul McGhieFILTHY RICH
Writer/Director: Tate Taylor
Producer(s): Brian Grazer, Francie Calfo, John Norris
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: A Southern Gothic dramedy revolving around two strong, sharp women who will go to any length to protect their loved ones and get their due. When the wealthy CEO of the world’s largest Christian network dies in a plane crash, his wife and adult children are stunned to discover he has grown, illegitimate kids who are also in his will. When the steel azalea matriarch of the family tries to pay them to go away, these newly legitimized heirs have very different ideas and insist on not only staying in town, but becoming part of the family empire.
Cast: Kim Cattrall, Gerald McRaney, Aubrey Dollar, Benjamin Levy Aguilar, Corey Cott, Mark L. Young, Steve Harris, Melia Kreiling, David Denman, Olivia MacklinLOVESTRUCK
Writer(s): Tom Kapinos
Producer(s): Sharon Levy, Francois-Xavier Demaison, Nicolas Coppermann
Director(s): Sanaa Hamri
Studio(s): 20th Century Fox Television, Endemol Shine North America
Logline: LOVESTRUCK is a structurally inventive dramedy, in which the entire first season takes place over the course of single night at a wedding. As we get to know the wedding party, we’ll learn surprising reveals about both their present and past. We’ll see that things aren’t always what they seem and explore the complicated bonds of love, friendship and family at different stages of life. Inspired by the series Quadras, from Endemol Shine France.
Cast: Rachel Bilson, Steve Kazee, Andie MacDowell, Kathleen Turner, Richard Roxburgh, Madeline Wise, Usman Ally, Beth Riesgraf, Jeffery Self, Linda ParkneXt
Writer(s): Manny Coto
Producer(s): Charlie Gogolak
Director(s): John Requa, Glenn Ficarra
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television/Zaftig Films
Logline: A propulsive, fact-based thriller grounded in the latest A.I. research, neXt features a brilliant but paranoid former tech CEO who joins a Homeland Cybersecurity Agent and her team to stop the world’s first artificial intelligence crisis: the emergence of a rogue AI with the ability to continuously improve itself. Marrying pulse-pounding action with a layered examination of how technology is invading our lives and transforming us in ways we don’t yet understand, the series also presents us with a villain like we’ve never seen before, one whose greatest weapon against us is ourselves.
Cast: John Slattery, Fernanda Andrade, Eve Harlow, Aaron Moten, Gerardo Celasco, Michael Mosley, Jason Butler HarnerPRODIGAL SON
Writer(s): Chris Fedak, Sam Sklaver
Producer(s): Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schechter
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: Malcolm Bright has a gift. He knows how killers think, how their minds work. Why? His father was one of the worst — a notorious serial killer called “The Surgeon.” That’s why Bright is the best criminal psychologist around; murder is the family business. He will use his twisted genius to help the NYPD solve crimes and stop killers, all while dealing with a manipulative mother, annoyingly normal sister, a homicidal father still looking to bond with his prodigal son, and his own constantly evolving neuroses. PRODIGAL SON is a fresh take on a crime franchise with a provocative and outrageous lead character and darkly comedic tone.
Cast: Tom Payne, Michael Sheen, Lou Diamond Phillips, Aurora Perrineau, Frank Harts, Bellamy Young, Keiko Agena, Halston SageUNTITLED ANNIE WEISMAN AND JASON KATIMS DRAMA
Writer(s): Annie Weisman
Producer(s): Jason Katims, Jeni Mulein, Imogen Banks, Sharon Levy
Director: Leslye Headland
Studio: Universal Television/Endemol Shine North America
Logline: Only child Julia Beckley has her life turned upside down when it’s revealed that her father, a pioneering Nobel Prize-winning fertility doctor, used his own sperm to conceive dozens of children over the course of his career. Reeling from this explosive revelation, Julia discovers two new sisters — her former best friend and an ex-Olympic athlete. Against all odds, the women attempt to form an untraditional family and lean on each other as they grapple with their own identity crises. Based on the original Endemol Shine Australia series, “Sisters,” from Jonathan Gavin and Imogen Banks.
Cast: Brittany Snow, Emily Osment, Megalyn Echikunwoke, Timothy Hutton, Mustafa Elzein, Mo McRaeBack to Top
NBC COMEDYFRIENDS-IN-LAW
Writer(s): Brian Gallivan
Producer(s): Tom Werner
Studio: Warner Bros. Television
Logline: Brian and Jake are polar opposites who must quickly figure out how to coexist when their respective best friends decide to get married. (Multi-camera)THE KENAN SHOW
Writer(s): Jackie Clarke
Producer(s): Kenan Thompson, Lorne Michaels, Andrew Singer
Director: Chris Rock
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: Kenan Thompson stars as a newly widowed dad determined to be everything for his kids while begrudgingly letting his persistent father-in-law become more involved in their lives. (Single camera)
Cast: Kenan Thompson, Andy GarciaLIKE MAGIC
Writer(s):  Bridget Kyle & Vicky Luu
Producer(s): Matt Hubbard, Kelly Pancho
Director: Julie Anne Robinson
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: A workplace comedy that follows an optimistic young woman pursuing her dream to be a headlining magician in the eccentric and ego-driven world of the Magic Palace. (Single camera)
Cast: Jee Young Han, Rory O’Malley, Freddie Stroma, Hayley Magnus, French Stewart, Mike LanePERFECT HARMONY (f.k.a. ALL TOGETHER NOW)
Writer(s): Lesley Wake Webster
Producer(s): Adam Anders, Jon Radler, Bradley Whitford
Director: Jason Winer
Studio: 20th Century Fox Television
Logline: A rural church choir gets the director it never thought it needed when a salty, Ivy League music professor stumbles through their door. (Single camera)
Cast: Bradley Whitford, Anna Camp, Will Greenberg, Geno Segers, Rizwan Manji, Tymberlee HillSUNNYSIDE
Writer(s): Kal Penn, Matt Murray
Producer(s): Michael Schur, David Miner, Dan Spilo
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: Former New York City Councilman Garrett Shah finds his calling when faced with six recent immigrants in need of his help and in search of the American Dream. (Single camera)
Cast: Kal Penn, Kiran Deol, Moses Storm,Diana Maria Riva, Samba Schutte, Poppy Liu, Joel Kim Booster, Tudor PetrutUNINSURED
Writer(s): Dan Levy
Producer(s): Doug Robinson, Alison Greenspan
Studio: Sony Pictures Television
Logline: Young parents Dave and Rebecca end up having to take care of Dave’s parents who have mishandled their finances and need help to pay down a sizable debt. (Multi-camera)
Cast: Adam Pally, Abby Elliott, Fran Drescher, Steven Weber, Jessy Hodges, Amer Chadha-PatelVILLAGE GAZETTE
Writer(s): Shelly Gossman
Producer(s): Seth Meyers, Mike Shoemaker, Lorne Michaels, Andrew Singer
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: Amber is the editor of the Benson Village Gazette. She loves fluff pieces that demonstrate the idyllic nature of life in her hometown. When the newspaper owners hire a reporter who’s looking to uncover a juicy story in Benson, he threatens to unravel the happy denial Amber has been living in. (Single-cam)
Cast: Amber RuffinBack to Top
NBC DRAMABLUFF CITY LAW (W.T.)
Writer(s): Dean Georgaris
Producer(s): David Janollari, Michael Aguliar
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: A character-driven legal drama that follows the lawyers of an elite Memphis law firm that specializes in the most controversial landmark civil rights cases. Led by legendary lawyer Elijah Strait and his brilliant daughter, Sydney Keller, they take on the toughest David-and-Goliath cases while navigating their complicated relationship.
Cast: Jimmy Smits, Caitlin McGee, Barry Sloane, Michael Luwoye, Maame Yaa Boafo, Jayne AtkinsonCOUNCIL OF DADS
Writer(s): Tony Phelan & Joan Rater
Producer(s): Jerry Bruckheimer, Jonathan Littman, KristieAnne Reed, James Oh, Bruce Feiler
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: Based on Bruce Feiler’s memoir of the same name, the drama revolves around a father whose life is thrown into upheaval when he is diagnosed with a terminal illness. Facing his morality, he and his wife assemble a group of friends to support his family and guide them through life’s challenges.
Cast: Sarah Wayne Callies, Michele Weaver, J. August Richards, Clive Standen, Blue Chapman, Michael O’Neill, Steven Silver, Emjay Anthony, Thalia TranEMERGENCE
Writer(s): Michele Fazekas, Tara Butters
Producer(s): Robert Atwood
Director: Paul McGuigan
Studio: ABC Studios
Logline: A character-driven genre thriller that centers around a sheriff who takes in a young child that she finds near the site of a mysterious accident who has no memory of what has happened. The investigation draws her into a conspiracy larger than she ever imagined, and the child’s identity is at the center of it all.
Cast: Allison Tolman, Alexa Skye Swinton, Clancy Brown, Robert Bailey Jr., Ashley Aufderheide, Owain Yeoman, Donald FaisonLAW & ORDER: HATE CRIMES — ordered straight-to-series
Producer(s): Dick Wolf, Warren Leight, Peter Jankowski, Arthur Forney, Michael Chernuchin, Julie Martin, Mariska Hargitay, Alex Chapple
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: Based on the real-life Hate Crimes Task Force within the New York Police Department. The unit works under the Special Victims Unit (the basis for SVU) within the department and often borrows SVU detectives for help with investigations.LINCOLN
Writer(s): VJ Boyd, Mark Bianculli
Producer(s): Avi Nir, Alon Shtruzman, Peter Traugott, Rachel Kaplan
Director: Seth Gordon
Studio: Sony Pictures Television/Universal Television
Logline: Based on the internationally bestselling book series, “Lincoln” follows legendary forensic criminologist Lincoln Rhyme, who was seriously injured during his hunt for the diabolic serial killer known as the Bone Collector. Called back into action when the killer re-emerges, Lincoln forms a unique partnership with Amelia Sachs, a young beat cop who helps him hunt the deadly mastermind while also taking on the most high-profile cases in the NYPD.
Cast: Russell Hornsby, Arielle Kebbel, Michael Imperioli, Ramses Jimenez, Brooke Lyons, Roslyn DuffPRISM
Writer/Director: Daniel Barnz
Producer(s): Carol Mendelsohn, Julie Weitz, Ben Barnz
Studio: Universal Television
Logline: A provocative exploration of a murder trial in which every episode is told through the perspective of a different key person involved. Each new version of the facts ratchets up the mystery and the suspense, calling into question everything we have seen so far and asking is the right person on trial? Driven by an ensemble of complicated characters, the show lets the audience ask if truth matters less than who can tell the most compelling story.
Cast: Malin Akerman, Mykelti Williamson, Ramon Rodriguez, Chloe Wepper, David Alpay, Brooke Smith, Sara RueZOEY’S EXTRAORDINARY PLAYLIST
Writer(s): Austin Winsberg
Producer(s): Paul Feig, Jesse Henderson, Kim Tannenbaum, Eric Tannenbaum, Jason Wang
Director: Richard Shepard
Logline: An innovative musical dramedy about a whip-smart but socially awkward girl in her late 20s who is suddenly able to hear the innermost thoughts of people around her as songs and even big musical numbers that they perform just for her. With this new ability at her disposal, she is able to use her “gift” to not only help herself understand people in her life, but also to help others around her.
Cast: Jane Levy, Peter Gallagher, John Clarence Stewart, Skylar Astin, Alex Newell, Mary SteenburgenAlso Read: CBS Orders Science-vs-Religion Drama Pilot 'Evil' From 'The Good Fight' CreatorsBack to TopWith 10.5 million total viewers tuning in to its debut "live," ABC's "Roseanne" spinoff series "The Conners" became the No. 1 new show of the Fall 2018-19 TV season -- but just barely.  NBC's "Lost"-like vehicle "Manifest" is now second, having averaged 10.4 million overall viewers on its own premiere night. CBS' "God Friended Me" had initially topped that total, though the NFL football-boosted drama adjusted down in final numbers.  Scroll through our gallery for the full rankings of fall's 21 debuts. TheWrap will update this post as more new broadcast shows start.  Also Read: 17 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)Also Read: 17 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)Rank: 21        Show: "All American"  Net: The CW  Total Viewers: 710,000   Also Read: Broadcast TV’s Most-Watched Debuts Since 2013, From ‘Blindspot’ to ‘Instinct’ (Photos)Also Read: Broadcast TV’s Most-Watched Debuts Since 2013, From ‘Blindspot’ to ‘Instinct’ (Photos)Rank: 20Show: "Legacies"Net: The CWTotal Viewers: 1.2 millionAlso Read: Summer 2018 TV Shows With the Richest and Poorest Viewers (Photos)Also Read: Summer 2018 TV Shows With the Richest and Poorest Viewers (Photos)Rank: 19    Show: "Charmed"  Net: The CW  Total Viewers: 1.5 million  Also Read: ‘Flip or Flop Atlanta’ Was Not Supposed to Be Part of HGTV FranchiseAlso Read: ‘Flip or Flop Atlanta’ Was Not Supposed to Be Part of HGTV FranchiseRank: 18            Show: "Rel"  Net: Fox  Total Viewers: 2 million  Also Read: ‘America’s Got Talent’ to ‘Celebrity Family Feud': 15 Highest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)Also Read: ‘America’s Got Talent’ to ‘Celebrity Family Feud': 15 Highest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)Rank: 17    Show: "The Alec Baldwin Show"    Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 2.2 million  Also Read: Ratings: ABC’s ‘Alec Baldwin Show’ Bombs in Premiere, Ties Univision in Key DemoAlso Read: Ratings: ABC’s ‘Alec Baldwin Show’ Bombs in Premiere, Ties Univision in Key DemoRank: 16       Show: "I Feel Bad"  Net: NBC  Total Viewers: 2.6 million  Also Read: Broadcast TV’s Most-Watched Debuts Since 2013, From ‘Blindspot’ to ‘Instinct’ (Photos)Also Read: Broadcast TV’s Most-Watched Debuts Since 2013, From ‘Blindspot’ to ‘Instinct’ (Photos)Rank: 15    Show: "Single Parents"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 4.9 million  Also Read: 12 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of 2017-18 Season (Photos)Also Read: 12 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of 2017-18 Season (Photos)Rank: 14    Show: "Dancing With the Stars: Juniors"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 5 million  Also Read: Ratings: Taylor Swift Can’t Save AMAs From Hitting New All-Time LowAlso Read: Ratings: Taylor Swift Can’t Save AMAs From Hitting New All-Time LowRank: 13        Show: "A Million Little Things"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 5.1 million  Also Read: 11 Highest-Rated TV Shows of 2017-18 Season (Photos)Also Read: 11 Highest-Rated TV Shows of 2017-18 Season (Photos)Rank: 12  Show: "The Rookie"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 5.4 million  Also Read: ‘The Conners': What ABC Expects From ‘Roseanne’ Spinoff’s RatingsAlso Read: ‘The Conners': What ABC Expects From ‘Roseanne’ Spinoff’s RatingsRank: 11      Show: "Happy Together"    Net: CBS  Total Viewers: 5.9 million  Also Read: Ratings: ‘I Feel Bad’ Does Bad in Time Period PremiereAlso Read: Ratings: ‘I Feel Bad’ Does Bad in Time Period PremiereRank: 10  Show: "The Kids Are Alright"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 6.6 million  Also Read: ‘The Conners’ Premiere Slips 35 Percent From ‘Roseanne’ Return in Early RatingsAlso Read: ‘The Conners’ Premiere Slips 35 Percent From ‘Roseanne’ Return in Early RatingsRank: 9    Show: "Cool Kids"  Net: Fox  Total Viewers: 6.9 million  Also Read: 17 Highest-Rated Canceled or Ending TV Shows of 2017-18 Season – So Far (Photos)Also Read: 17 Highest-Rated Canceled or Ending TV Shows of 2017-18 Season – So Far (Photos)Rank: 8    Show: "Murphy Brown"  Net: CBS  Total Viewers: 7.5 million  Also Read: 14 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of the 2017-18 Season That Have Been Renewed… So Far (Photos)Also Read: 14 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of the 2017-18 Season That Have Been Renewed… So Far (Photos)Rank: 7    Show: "The Neighborhood"    Net: CBS    Total Viewers: 8.07 million  Also Read: NBC Wins 7th Straight Premiere Week in Ratings, CBS Makes It 10 in a Row Among Total ViewersAlso Read: NBC Wins 7th Straight Premiere Week in Ratings, CBS Makes It 10 in a Row Among Total ViewersRank: 6    Show: "Magnum P.I."  Net: CBS  Total Viewers: 8.12 million  Also Read: ABC Wins Broadcast Battle for Kavanaugh Hearing Viewers, NBC Tops Key DemoAlso Read: ABC Wins Broadcast Battle for Kavanaugh Hearing Viewers, NBC Tops Key DemoRank: 5    Show: "New Amsterdam"  Net: NBC  Total Viewers: 8.4 million  Also Read: Fox News Beats CNN and MSNBC Combined in Kavanaugh Hearing ViewersAlso Read: Fox News Beats CNN and MSNBC Combined in Kavanaugh Hearing ViewersRank: 4    Show: "F.B.I."  Net: CBS  Total Viewers: 10.08 million  Also Read: ‘South Park’ Season 22 Premiere: ‘Dead Kids’ Bags 1.5 Million Viewers on WednesdayAlso Read: ‘South Park’ Season 22 Premiere: ‘Dead Kids’ Bags 1.5 Million Viewers on WednesdayRank: 3  Show: "God Friended Me"  Net: CBS  Total Viewers: 10.14 million  Also Read: NBC’s Emmy Awards Sink to Record-Low 10.2 Million ViewersAlso Read: NBC’s Emmy Awards Sink to Record-Low 10.2 Million ViewersRank: 2    Show: "Manifest"  Net: NBC  Total Viewers: 10.4 million  Also Read: HGTV’s ‘My Lottery Dream Home’ Season 5 Premiere Cashes In With Record RatingsAlso Read: HGTV’s ‘My Lottery Dream Home’ Season 5 Premiere Cashes In With Record RatingsRank: 1  Show: "The Conners"  Net: ABC  Total Viewers: 10.5 million  Also Read: Ratings: ‘The Conners’ Premiere Draws 10.5 Million ViewersAlso Read: Ratings: ‘The Conners’ Premiere Draws 10.5 Million ViewersSorry, “Manifest”: You ran into that “Roseanne” buzzsawWith 10.5 million total viewers tuning in to its debut "live," ABC's "Roseanne" spinoff series "The Conners" became the No. 1 new show of the Fall 2018-19 TV season -- but just barely.  NBC's "Lost"-like vehicle "Manifest" is now second, having averaged 10.4 million overall viewers on its own premiere night. CBS' "God Friended Me" had initially topped that total, though the NFL football-boosted drama adjusted down in final numbers.  Scroll through our gallery for the full rankings of fall's 21 debuts. TheWrap will update this post as more new broadcast shows start.  Also Read: 17 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)Also Read: 17 Lowest-Rated TV Shows of Summer 2018 (Photos)