The “Happy Death Day” sequel’s attempt to go all sci-fi and explain how its time loop works falls apart at every turnUniversal(Major spoilers ahead for all of “Happy Death Day 2U”)“Happy Death Day 2U” is a fascinating sequel, and surprisingly ambitious for a horror follow-up. Not content simply to do another death-based time loop, it wants to try new things and delve into science fiction for real. But it’s also frustrating because it doesn’t really commit to this new direction.When it comes to putting things like quantum mechanics and time travel in your movie, all that really matters is that they be internally coherent. Like, it doesn’t matter how I think time travel or dimension hopping works, because those things are not actually real. What matters is that the movie sets some rules and then lives by them. Otherwise your story just won’t work.Take “Back to the Future,” for example. That series has rules that are sorta silly (specifically the idea that you can change the past so significantly that you erase yourself from existence), but that movie works because it establishes the rules and sticks with them. It doesn’t cheat for the sake of a story beat — it set rules that work for the story it was telling.Also Read: 'Happy Death Day 2U' Film Review: Frightfully Clever Slasher Sequel is 2 Cool 2 B ForgottenThe first “Happy Death Day” kept things very simple. There was no explanation for the time loop, which is fine. The reason for the loop simply didn’t matter, as the mechanics of it were intentionally de-emphasized. This whole thing was just a fun twist on the slasher genre.“Happy Death Day 2U,” on the other hand, actually does explain the time loop, and throws in parallel universes for good measure. But it doesn’t really set any rules or operate with consistency around its newly-central sci-fi concept. Instead it continues to treat the mechanics of its gimmick as flippantly as it did when there was no explanation. And that’s a problem, because once you try to explain something you have to go all the way.“Happy Death Day 2U” opens with a new murder loop. The day after the events of the original movie, Ryan (Phi Vu) is murdered and immediately finds himself in the same situation Tree (Jessica Rothe) was in last time around. Why? Who knows? And who cares? If the hook for a “Happy Death Day” sequel was simply that it’s happening again, to another person adjacent to the previous occurrence, with no explanation, that would be fine. Not knowing why this was happening worked back then, and it would work now.Also Read: 'Black Mirror: Bandersnatch' Has a Secret Ending With a Crazy Easter EggBut instead of going that route, writer/director Christopher Landon introduced “Sissy,” a quantum device of some kind that Ryan built as his thesis project. Sissy seemingly turned itself on the night that Tree’s loop of murder began, and the characters quickly deduce that that’s what sparked the events of the first movie.But no one bothers to try to explain how that would start an additional time loop a day later, when Sissy did not power on. “Happy Death Day 2U” firmly establishes that Sissy only turned on one time. So they really were only providing an explanation for the first time loop, not this new one.So the person who is out to kill Ryan is, uh, another Ryan. Our heroes manage to capture him and interrogate him a little bit — and this new Ryan yells a lot about how Sissy is dangerous and is causing bad things to happen. And I guess he’s trying to kill this other version of himself to prevent him from using the machine to do whatever horrible thing this Other Ryan is afraid of.So in response to this, the original Ryan fires up Sissy once again, causing an explosion that hurtles Tree into an alternate universe where she’s once again stuck in a time loop. And, presumably, causing whatever bad thing the Other Ryan was worried about and trying to prevent.Also Read: Jordan Peele's 'Us' Trailer Shows a Terrifying New Nightmare (Video)But here’s the thing: that Ryan doppelganger is never even mentioned again, nor is whatever bad thing Sissy allegedly caused. In fact, the entire opening segment of the movie is completely forgotten. Tree travels to an alternate universe but there aren’t two Trees there, just her. The implication being that her consciousness traveled, but not her physical body.The rest of the movie is just about Tree and friends trying to use the machine to make the time loops stop and return her to her home universe, as if the inciting incident in the plot had not occurred. There’s no doppelgangers, no explanation for why Ryan would think travelling to an alternate dimension to kill his other self would help, not even a hint as to how Ryan was able to do that.In other words: everything that the opening segment of the movie established about how this whole thing works is completely ignored the rest of the movie. “Happy Death Day 2U” spends the first chunk of its runtime kinda/sorta establishing some rules for how this stuff mechanically functions, and then immediately abandons those rules and ignores all of those story beats. Ryan’s concerns are never mentioned again, much less addressed.From there, the vibe of the movie is very much just “fire up the machine and it will affect Tree only.” Why does it affect her in the first place? She was not near Sissy when it went off the first time and caused the time loop. And the movie does demonstrate that it can affect others, given the whole Ryan doppelganger situation that the movie conveniently forgets happened.Also Read: 8 Things We Learned From That Intense 'Avengers: Endgame' Super Bowl CommercialMore importantly, why would turning on Sissy affect only Tree? Why would none of the half-dozen people present when the machine went off not be impacted in some way? And how could they know that firing it up again in the alternate dimension would not have consequences for anyone else? Again, I’m remembering doppelganger Ryan’s warning, and the movie is not.Meanwhile, the emotional hook of the movie is that Tree has to decide between staying in this new dimension, in which her mother is alive but Carter (Israel Broussard) is dating her best friend, or returning to her old one where her mother is dead but she is dating Carter. There are a ton of potential metaphysical ramifications to this decision that no one bothers to broach. Such as, what would happen to the Tree who inhabited this new universe if the other Tree stayed? Would this be a sort of body swap situation? We don’t really get a chance to even infer an answer to this question because when Tree does return to her home dimension it appears that she returns to the exact moment she left. So nobody is the wiser, and as far as her friends are concerned nothing even happened when they fired up Sissy again.The closest thing we get to an explanation for what happens at the climax of the movie is earlier when the Ryan of this new universe says that what they plan to do is turn on Sissy using a formula that will close the time loop in both dimensions — presumably one of these loops is the one Ryan is in. This explanation does not address the doppelganger specifically.Also Read: How Will 'Captain Marvel' Play Into that 'Avengers: Infinity War' Ending and 'Endgame'?I can speculate a solution to this — though it’s one I have to infer because the movie does not actually provide evidence of this. My thought is that the doppelganger Ryan who tried to murder the original Ryan was the Ryan from this second universe — the one we spend most of the movie in. So we’ll say Ryan 1 is the one from the original movie and the beginning of “Happy Death Day 2U,” and Ryan 2 is the one who tried to kill Ryan 1. Ryan 2, in my theory, is the one from the dimension Tree travels to.Ryan 2’s plan to murder himself in a different dimension is derailed by Tree’s arrival and her new death loop. Whatever plan Ryan 2 had concocted never happened because he was trying to solve Tree’s problem instead. So, essentially, whatever bad thing Ryan 2 was trying to prevent by murdering Ryan 1 also never happened — using Sissy to close the loops and send Tree home ended all the drama, and returned Ryan 2 to his home dimension or simply erased him. Basically: turning on Sissy again undid everything that happened in the whole movie.But, again, that’s just a guess. The movie does not tell us any of that. I’m just trying to make sense of it the best I can. But, unfortunately, this guess can’t account for what happens at the very end.See, “Happy Death Day 2U” has a bonus mid-credits scene in which all the main characters are rounded up by DARPA, which confiscated the machine but couldn’t figure out how to use it. And they want them to help by, yes, intentionally putting someone in a time loop. I can roll with the inference that with Tree’s memory of all those formulas that they can instigate something like that. But what does not follow is the idea that they could force a specific person of their choosing into a time loop on purpose.At no point in the film do they indicate the machine’s interaction with Tree is anything other than a freak accident. All we can infer is that it “bonded” with her for unknown reasons. And it’s likely that Ryan 2 knew how to make it target a specific person because he made himself travel between dimensions using it. But Ryan 2’s knowledge would have been wiped when the good guys ended all the time loops and sent Tree home. Ryan 2, for all intents and purposes, never existed.And, yeah, the mid-credits scene is clearly just a gag that isn’t intended to be analysed like this. Nor is the rest of the movie. But, hey, these are the waters you wade into when you try to tell a story like this one. If none of this bothers you, great! I’m glad you could enjoy the movie. But that doesn’t change the fact that this stuff is a mess. And it’s a shame, because it’s an otherwise enjoyable and amusing flick. It’s just also one that doesn’t really think through its premise.If there was one thing 2018 taught us, it's that "shocking" is a truly relative term -- and we're not even talking about real-life instances here. Yes, it's pretty hard to blow anyone's mind these days, including that of TV viewers, making truly gasp-worthy small-screen character deaths few and far between. But that didn't stop several showrunners from doing their worst -- er, best, to totally kill you with these on-screen passings. Obviously, spoilers ahead.Also Read: 18 Most-Watched TV Specials of 2018: Oscars, Emmys and Everyone Loves a Parade (Photos)Also Read: 18 Most-Watched TV Specials of 2018: Oscars, Emmys and Everyone Loves a Parade (Photos)Jack Pearson (Milo Ventimiglia) -- "This Is Us": We've known the Pearson family patriarch was going out long before the second season got around to showing how he died. The wham episode (which aired after the Super Bowl) packed a punch because of the twist that sees Jack of cardiac arrest due to smoke inhalation after a house fire the entire family manages to make it out of alive.Also Read: ‘This Is Us’ Finally Identifies Future Tess and Randall’s ‘Her’ on Fall FinaleAlso Read: ‘This Is Us’ Finally Identifies Future Tess and Randall’s ‘Her’ on Fall FinaleKanan (50 Cent) -- "Power"RIP Fitty.Also Read: ‘Power’ Crew Member Killed in On-Set Accident, Starz Series Shuts Down ProductionAlso Read: ‘Power’ Crew Member Killed in On-Set Accident, Starz Series Shuts Down ProductionMadison Clark (Kim Dickens) -- "Fear the Walking Dead": Madison's death was one of several bombs the "Walking Dead" franchise dropped on fans this year. Dickens' exit left fans in a zombie-like haze they had barely recovered from by the time Andrew Lincoln's Rick Grimes said farewell to the main series.Also Read: ‘Fear the Walking Dead’ Showrunners Break Down the Season 4 FinaleAlso Read: ‘Fear the Walking Dead’ Showrunners Break Down the Season 4 FinaleAgent Reeves (Duane Henry) -- "NCIS": Pauley Perrette's planned exit was far less dramatic than Henry's surprise goodbye in the same episode.Also Read: ‘NCIS’ Alum Pauley Perrette Shares Her ‘Lovely’ George HW Bush Dream After His DeathAlso Read: ‘NCIS’ Alum Pauley Perrette Shares Her ‘Lovely’ George HW Bush Dream After His DeathMany, many residents of Westworld -- "Westworld": Several characters on Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy's HBO sci-fi series died on the Season 2 finale, including Bernard, Charlotte Hale, Elsie, Robert Ford, Dolores and Maeve -- to name of a few of the many. The shocker here is the group is divided into those who stayed dead, didn't stay dead, and may or may not still be dead. Also Read: Reddit’s Most Popular TV Shows in 2018 (With No New ‘Game of Thrones’)Also Read: Reddit’s Most Popular TV Shows in 2018 (With No New ‘Game of Thrones’)Dr. Hugh Culber (Wilson Cruz) -- "Star Trek: Discovery": Dr. Culber's death marked the passing of another small-screen LGBT characters death, made even more frustrating because the beloved doc was one half of "Star Trek's" first gay couple on TV.Also Read: ‘Star Trek: Discovery’ Finds Its SpockAlso Read: ‘Star Trek: Discovery’ Finds Its SpockJerome (Cameron Monaghan) -- "Gotham": Goodbye, Jerome. Hello, The Joker.Also Read: ‘Gotham’ Final Season on Fox Gets Premiere DateAlso Read: ‘Gotham’ Final Season on Fox Gets Premiere DateAlison (Ruth Wilson) -- "The Affair": Allison's death at the end of Season 4 was a shock, but not as much of a shock as the behind-the-scenes story of Wilson's exit. Read about that here.Also Read: ‘The Affair': Joshua Jackson Will Not Return as Series Regular for Final SeasonAlso Read: ‘The Affair': Joshua Jackson Will Not Return as Series Regular for Final SeasonAnika (Grace Byers) -- "Empire": The death of "Kitty Boo Boo" was clearly a long-time coming, as "Empire" co-creator Danny Strong told TheWrap, but knowing Anika had it coming didn't help us contain our gasps during her Andre-assisted suicide.Also Read: ‘Empire’ Boss Says There’s ‘Definitely’ a Chance the Person You Think Is in That Casket, Is in That CasketAlso Read: ‘Empire’ Boss Says There’s ‘Definitely’ a Chance the Person You Think Is in That Casket, Is in That CasketDavid Rosen (Josh Malina) -- "Scandal": Truly the only real White Hat on the Shonda Rhimes political drama, David Rosen was never going to make it to the end of the series finale.Also Read: ‘Scandal’ Star Tony Goldwyn Cast in Netflix’s ‘Chambers’Also Read: ‘Scandal’ Star Tony Goldwyn Cast in Netflix’s ‘Chambers’(Almost) everyone on Earth -- "American Horror Story: Apocalypse": This season was literally named after the end of the world, so it really would have been more shocking if no one died. Yes, pretty much everyone kicking the bucket (at one point or another) by the end of "AHS" Season 8 was expected. But the real "OMG!" for Ryan Murphy fans came when the clock was turned back and (mostly) everyone on the good side of the end-of-days battle was revived, thanks to Mallory (Billie Lourd).Also Read: ‘American Horror Story’ Crossovers Continue? Ryan Murphy Says ‘Witches Will Be Back’Also Read: ‘American Horror Story’ Crossovers Continue? Ryan Murphy Says ‘Witches Will Be Back’So many Crains -- "Haunting of Hill House": Netflix's TV adaptation of the horror novel of the same name is packed with tragic moment upon tragic moment for the Crain family, but the deaths of Nellie and Olivia cut deeper than anything else the show throws at you. Oh, and if you didn't cry over Hugh's sacrifice in the finale, then you are truly dead inside.Also Read: ‘Haunting of Hill House’ Creator Shuts Down Red Room Theories: Fans Can Take Ending at ‘Face Value’Also Read: ‘Haunting of Hill House’ Creator Shuts Down Red Room Theories: Fans Can Take Ending at ‘Face Value’Bill (David Haig) -- "Killing Eve": It's hard to say there's anything about the Sandra Oh-led BBC America spy thriller's first season that isn't shocking. But Bill going out was, uh, definitely up there.Also Read: Why AMC Networks Chose Sarah Barnett to Be Entertainment President: ‘Killing Eve’ Didn’t HurtAlso Read: Why AMC Networks Chose Sarah Barnett to Be Entertainment President: ‘Killing Eve’ Didn’t HurtJune (Maya Rudolph) and Oscar (Fred Armisen) -- "Forever": Basically the premise of the whole show is that they're dead, but it was a secret. Surprise!Also Read: ‘Marvelous Mrs Maisel': Zachary Levi Fast-Talks About Joining Amy Sherman-Palladino’s Fast-Talking Club (Video)Also Read: ‘Marvelous Mrs Maisel': Zachary Levi Fast-Talks About Joining Amy Sherman-Palladino’s Fast-Talking Club (Video)Martin Riggs (Clayne Crawford) -- "Lethal Weapon": Riggs' death was definitely a kick in the head -- in-universe, that is. Roger Murtaugh losing his partner suddenly would have hit fans harder if it wasn't already very clear Fox was killing off Riggs before the Season 3 premiere even aired, due to on-set spats between Damon Wayans and Clayne Crawford. Now that behind-the-scenes drama? Yeah, that was shocking.Also Read: Ratings: With No Midterm Election Coverage, Fox Finishes Last Among Big 4 Broadcast NetsAlso Read: Ratings: With No Midterm Election Coverage, Fox Finishes Last Among Big 4 Broadcast NetsDede (Shelley Long) -- "Modern Family": The ABC sitcom teased a major character death leading up to its annual Halloween episode, and fulfilled that grim promise with the sudden passing of Mitch and Claire's mother. Also Read: ‘Modern Family’ Creator Explains Why They Killed Off THAT Character on HalloweenAlso Read: ‘Modern Family’ Creator Explains Why They Killed Off THAT Character on HalloweenDoug Stamper (Michael Kelly) -- "House of Cards": Doug outlived his idol, Frank Underwood, making it all the way to the end of the series before being taken out by Claire herself.Also Read: ‘House of Cards': Robin Wright-Led Final Season Draws Fewer Viewers, But Skews More FemaleAlso Read: ‘House of Cards': Robin Wright-Led Final Season Draws Fewer Viewers, But Skews More FemaleJesus (Tom Payne) -- "The Walking Dead": Hardly the first death for the long-running AMC series, but definitely one of the hardest to hit fans so far.Also Read: From ‘The Walking Dead’ to ‘House of Cards': 8 TV Shows That Went on After Star ExitAlso Read: From ‘The Walking Dead’ to ‘House of Cards': 8 TV Shows That Went on After Star ExitNick (Frank Dillane) -- "Fear the Walking Dead": Before Kim Dickens' exit, Dillane was killed off the series and we thought we'd never recovery. Nick, one of the few remaining original characters, was shot in the chest by Charlie, sending us into tears for days. The death was made even more shocking by the fact that Dillane asked to be written off.Also Read: ‘Fear the Walking Dead’ Alum Kim Dickens to Star in Showtime Pilot ‘Queen Fur’Also Read: ‘Fear the Walking Dead’ Alum Kim Dickens to Star in Showtime Pilot ‘Queen Fur’Eden (Sydney Sweeney) -- "The Handmaid's Tale": Young, sweet Eden's execution marks a turning point in Season 2 of the Hulu adaptation. The moment horrifies Serena Joy and makes her question her beliefs about Gilead's dystopian society.Also Read: Golden Globes Snubs and Surprises, From ‘Handmaid’s Tale’ to Sacha Baron CohenAlso Read: Golden Globes Snubs and Surprises, From ‘Handmaid’s Tale’ to Sacha Baron CohenWerner Ziegler (Rainer Bock) -- "Better Call Saul": Werner's death proves that Mike Ehrmantraut is becoming the man you always knew he would be before "Breaking Bad."Also Read: AMC Opens Writers’ Rooms for Rashida Jones Comedy, Drama From ‘Better Call Saul’ EPsAlso Read: AMC Opens Writers’ Rooms for Rashida Jones Comedy, Drama From ‘Better Call Saul’ EPsAlan Pangborn (Scott Glenn) -- "Castle Rock": Pangborn is accidentally offed by his lover Ruth Deaver (Sissy Spacek) just over halfway through the first season of Hulu's Stephen King-universe series.Also Read: ‘Castle Rock’ Finale Teases the Truth About Ruth Deaver’s ConditionAlso Read: ‘Castle Rock’ Finale Teases the Truth About Ruth Deaver’s ConditionHonorable mentions for least shocking deaths go to Roseanne Conner (Roseanne Barr) and Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey) -- for obvious reasons.Also Read: Here’s How ‘House of Cards’ Wrote Out Kevin Spacey’s Frank UnderwoodAlso Read: Here’s How ‘House of Cards’ Wrote Out Kevin Spacey’s Frank UnderwoodHere are all the small-screen demises that packed a big punch this yearIf there was one thing 2018 taught us, it's that "shocking" is a truly relative term -- and we're not even talking about real-life instances here. Yes, it's pretty hard to blow anyone's mind these days, including that of TV viewers, making truly gasp-worthy small-screen character deaths few and far between. But that didn't stop several showrunners from doing their worst -- er, best, to totally kill you with these on-screen passings. Obviously, spoilers ahead.Also Read: 18 Most-Watched TV Specials of 2018: Oscars, Emmys and Everyone Loves a Parade (Photos)Also Read: 18 Most-Watched TV Specials of 2018: Oscars, Emmys and Everyone Loves a Parade (Photos)