Baldwin appeared as Trump in the “SNL” cold open for the fifth time this seasonAlec Baldwin didn’t show up on “SNL” much to deliver his Donald Trump impression all that often in the early part of the season, but he’s been popping up with more regularity of late. And on this week’s episode, Baldwin’s Trump delivered a tour de force parody of Trump’s press conference this week in which he explain why he was declaring a national emergency to try to pay for his border wall.Baldwin, who last appeared on “SNL” Jan. 19, came right out of the gate spewing standard Trumpian nonsense at breakneck speeds, delivering a monologue before taking questions from assemble reporters played by “SNL” cast members. Here’s how his insane opener went:“I’m here to declare a very urgent, important national emergency. This is a big one so I don’t want to waste any time. That’s why first I would like to blow my own horn a little bit,” Baldwin’s Trump declared as he headed off on his first series of tangents of the sketch. “I just had a great health exam. I’m still standing 6-foot-7, 185 pounds, shredded. We have another summit coming up in Hanoi with the North Korean leader, chairman Kim, who by the way is a very cool, misunderstood guy. I’m looking forward to seeing him next week as his dinner for shmucks, as he calls it.”Also Read: 'SNL': Wilbur Ross Visits 'Meet the Press' to Explain What a D-- Pic Is (Video)And then he finally got to the main topic: that darn border wall.“Let’s cut to the chase, folks. We need wall. Okay? We have a tremendous amount of drugs flowing into this country from the southern border, or the ‘brown line’ as many people have asked me not to call it,” Baldwin’s Trump said. “That’s why we need wall. Because wall works. Wall makes safe. You don’t have to be smart to understand that. In fact, it’s even easier to understand if you are not that smart. You can all see why I have to fake this national emergency, right? Because I want to. It’s really simple. We have a problem. Drugs are coming into this country through no wall.”“I asked President Xi if they had a drug problem in China. I’m not going to do the voice, but he said ‘No, no, no, me no like drugs. Me like death penalty.’ It sounds better with the voice, I think. But imagine if we used the death penalty for nonviolent crimes here. You shoplift, bing, bing, two in the back of the head. Something to kick around. I’m basically taking military money so I can has wall. So I’m gonna sign these papers for emergency and I will immediately be sued and it will not go in my favor and it will end up in the Supreme Court. And I’ll call my buddy Kavanaugh and I’ll say ‘It’s time to repay the Donny,’ and he’ll say ‘new phone, who dis?’ And the Mueller report will be released, crumbling my house of cards and I can plead insanity and do a few months in the [unintelligible] factory and my personal hell of playing president will finally be over.”Also Read: 'SNL': Steve Martin Appears as Roger Stone, Begs Trump to Pardon Him (Video)And after all that, we were only about a third of the way through the sketch. From there, Baldwin’s Trump took questions from reporters played by “SNL” cast members Cecily Strong, Heidi Gardner and Mikey Day, with a bonus appearance from Trump’s attorney general nominee William Barr, as played by “SNL” regular Beck Bennett.You can watch the sketch in full at the top of this post.In the world of sketch comedy, there is no fraternity more prestigious than the "Saturday Night Live Five-Timers Club." Those who have proven their worthiness by hosting "SNL" five times are invited into an elite circle, where they don luxurious satin robes, smoke expensive cigars and, for their entertainment, watch current cast members fight to the death.Alec Baldwin - 17 Not counting his many guest appearances to play guys like Donald Trump, Baldwin has hosted 16 times, passing Steve Martin's record in 2011. Martin was there that night to demand a surprise drug test.Steve Martin - 15 The esteemed president of the Five-Timers Club was also the fastest to get to that milestone, hosting his fifth less than two years after hosting his first. In total, Martin has hosted fifteen times, most recently in 2009.John Goodman - 13Goodman ranks third on the all-time "SNL" hosting list with 13 episodes, behind only Steve Martin and Alec Baldwin.Buck Henry - 10 From 1976 to 1980, it was tradition for the "Heaven Can Wait" director to host the "SNL" season finale. In total, Henry hosted 10 episodes, including a Mardi Gras special.Tom Hanks - 8 Hanks' fifth go-around as host in 1990 was what spawned the Five-Timers Club sketch. His 2016 appearance marks his eighth time hosting the show.Chevy Chase - 8 The original anchor of "Weekend Update" hosted "SNL" eight times after being the first original cast member to leave in the middle of the show's second season.Christopher Walken - 7 Walken was the first person to join the Five-Timers Club in the 21st Century after making his fifth appearance in May 2001.Drew Barrymore - 6 Though we haven't seen her in a Five-Timers' robe, her portrait is in the club's luxurious quarters. She holds the record for youngest host ever, having appeared on the show at age 7 following the release of "E.T." in 1982.Elliot Gould - 6 Gould hosted the show five times in the '70s, but his sixth appearance was his last after being blindsided by the sudden departure of Lorne Michaels from the show in 1980.Danny DeVito - 6 Shortly after playing The Penguin in "Batman Returns," DeVito joined the club with an "SNL" appearance in January 1993.Candice Bergen - 5 Bergen was the first woman to host "SNL" and hosted five times from 1975 to 1990.Bill Murray - 5 After starring on the show in Seasons 2-5, Murray returned to host five times in the '80s and '90s.Ben Affleck - 5 The man "SNL" once mocked for his film "Gigli" joined the Five-Timers club in 2013, shortly after winning the Best Picture Oscar for "Argo."Tina Fey - 5 Arguably the most famous "SNL" cast member among millennials, Tina Fey joined the Club in 2015 after a hosting career that included (and still includes) her famous Sarah Palin impression.Justin Timberlake - 5 The pop star's fifth appearance in 2013 saw "SNL" bring back the "Five-Timers" sketch, as Timberlake's induction was celebrated with a brawl between cast members Bobby Moynihan and Taran Killam.Scarlett Johansson - 5 The actress made her fifth appearance in 2016, and kicked off her monologue by putting on a Five-Timers jacket handed to her by Kenan Thompson.Melissa McCarthy - 5 After a season of guest appearances as Donald Trump's White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, McCarthy grabbed her Five-Timers jacket in Season 42.The Rock - 5 Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson hosted the finale of the 42nd season of "SNL"Jonah Hill - 5 Hill's five appearances as host spanned a decade, with the first coming in 2008 and the fifth on Nov. 3, 2018.Paul Simon - 4Technically, Simon only hosted four times, but he's been included in "Five-Timers Club" sketches since he was the musical guest on a fifth show. He also owns arguably the most emotional moment in the history of "SNL": his performance of "The Boxer" in the cold open of the first post-9/11 episode.TheWrap looks back at those who’ve joined the most elite club in sketch comedyIn the world of sketch comedy, there is no fraternity more prestigious than the "Saturday Night Live Five-Timers Club." Those who have proven their worthiness by hosting "SNL" five times are invited into an elite circle, where they don luxurious satin robes, smoke expensive cigars and, for their entertainment, watch current cast members fight to the death.