Steven Avery’s lawyer says she received a voicemail that proves the Assistant Attorney General has “misrepresented” the status of the bonesNetflixKathleen Zellner, the attorney for “Making a Murderer” subject Steven Avery, says she received a voicemail that shows the State of Wisconsin is “trying to deceive” her about the status of a pelvic bone found in a gravel pit.Zellner sent a letter to the Wisconsin Court of Appeals on Wednesday explaining that the “State has continuously represented to undersigned counsel since 2016 that the State was in possession of the pelvic bone.” She then explained that she received new ledger sheets on Feb. 8 that showed the pelvic bone, listed as Item #9, as being “only human.” A 2011 police report indicated that all human bones were separated from the non-human bones found in the gravel pit, and all the human bones were then returned to the family of Teresa Halbach, who was murdered in 2005 and for which Avery is in prison.Assistant Attorney General Thomas Fallon “has consistently represented to the undersigned counsel for the last three years that the State was in possession of the pelvic bone.” Therefore, Zellner made two “urgent email requests” to Fallon to “call undersigned counsel immediately on her cell phone to confirm whether or not the State was in possession of the ‘human’ pelvic bone.'”Also Read: 'Making a Murderer' Attorney Kathleen Zellner Files Motion to Test Bones Found in Gravel PitHowever, Zellner states, Fallon never returned her call, but she received a voicemail from attorney Mark Williams intended for Fallon that said the following:“Hi, Tom. This is Mark Williams. Um, I’ll send you an email later today, but I don’t think we should do anything or respond to her [Zellner] at all until tomorrow, uh, when we look into the bag and–and see exactly the pelvic bones are in there or not. Um, so I–I would not respond, uh, until we look into the bag, uh tomorrow morning and then we can talk about it, uh, before we send a response. Thanks a lot. Bye.”“Clearly, for the last three years, Mr. Fallon has misrepresented that the State was in possession of the ‘human’ pelvic bone,” wrote Zellner. “On September 18, 2017, Mr. Fallon again misrepresented that the State was in possession of the pelvic bone when he agreed with undersigned counsel to allow microscopic examination of the pelvic bone to determine whether it is human.”Zellner most recently filed a motion to stay Avery’s appeal, claiming that the state violated the law when they returned the human bones found in the gravel pit to the Halbach family.Also Read: 'Making a Murderer' Attorney Kathleen Zellner Shares New Info 'You Didn't See in the Show'The pelvic bones have been essential in the case against Avery. The pelvic bones were found on Manitowoc County property, as opposed to other bones that were found in Avery’s burn pit. Zellner wants to use the pelvic bone to show that Halbach left Avery’s property after their meeting on Oct. 31, 2005. That would provide doubt that Halbach was killed and burned on Avery’s property, further helping the prosecution’s theory that Avery was framed.“Making a Murderer” examines the 2007 convictions of Avery and Brendan Dassey for the 2005 murder of Halbach, casting doubts on Avery’s guilt, which hinged on evidence collected at the family’s auto salvage yard in Manitowoc County, Wisconsin. Notably, it pursues a theory that law enforcement may have held a grudge and was looking to settle a score with Avery after he was released from prison earlier after a sexual assault charge was disproven by DNA testing.TheWrap has reached out to Fallon and Williams for comment.After nearly three years, "Making a Murderer Part 2" is here. Before you dive back into Netflix's true-crime phenomenon, here's a look back at how the original docuseries changed the lives of Steven Avery and his nephew Brendan Dassey, who were convicted for the 2005 murder of Teresa Halbach.Making a Murderer PremieresThe documentary was released on Netflix Dec. 18, 2015. It has since received an approval rating of 97 percent on Rotten Tomatoes.Ken Kratz Bashed on YelpA week after "Making a Murderer" premiered, fans took to Yelp to warn potential new clients  against hiring Steven Avery's prosecutor.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Viewers Target Prosecutor Ken Kratz – On His Yelp PageAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Viewers Target Prosecutor Ken Kratz – On His Yelp PageWhite House PetitionA White House Petition circulated shortly after the series' release, seeking pardons of both Avery and Dassey. It required 100,000 signatures before Jan. 19 to reach eligibility for an official White House review. Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ White House Petition Surpasses 100,000 SignaturesAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ White House Petition Surpasses 100,000 SignaturesAvery Can't be Pardoned by Obama Although the White House Petition to pardon Avery reached the requisite number of signatures, President Barack Obama was constitutionally barred from taking action, because Avery was convicted in state court.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’s’ Steven Avery Can’t Be Pardoned by Obama: Here’s WhyAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’s’ Steven Avery Can’t Be Pardoned by Obama: Here’s WhyProtests Outside the CourthouseIn January of 2016, people protested outside the Manitowoc County Courthouse where Avery and Dassey were convicted.Supporters traveled from as far as Texas, Florida and Oregon. The event was live-streamed on Periscope, drawing hundreds of people online, many from outside the U.S.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery Supporters March on Manitowoc CourthouseAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery Supporters March on Manitowoc CourthouseAvery Family Launches Fundraising WebsiteAlso in January 2016, Avery and Dassey launched a fundraising website through their family in an attempt to raise money to mount another defense effort. Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Family Launches Fundraising Site for Steven Avery, Brendan DasseyAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Family Launches Fundraising Site for Steven Avery, Brendan DasseyAvery Hires a New LawyerAvery retained Kathleen Zellner, an Illinois-based attorney who specializes in wrongful convictions, in January 2016. “The Zellner Law Firm is looking forward to adding Mr. Avery to its long list of wrongful conviction exonerations,” Zellner’s statement read.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’s’ Steven Avery Has a New LawyerAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’s’ Steven Avery Has a New LawyerAvery's Ex-Fiancee Calls Him a "Monster,' 'Not Innocent'Avery's ex-fiancée Jodi Stachowski said he is a “monster” and that “he’s not innocent” in the murder of Halbach in a January 2016 interview with HLN’s Nancy Grace.Stachowski said she once “ate two boxes of rat poison just so I could go to the hospital to get away from him and ask them to get the police to help me.”Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery’s Ex-Fiancee Calls Him a ‘Monster’Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery’s Ex-Fiancee Calls Him a ‘Monster’Halbach's Aunt Thinks the Doc Is 'Terrible'“It’s terrible,” Teresa Halbach’s aunt, Kay Giordana, told People. “I can’t believe this came out. It is really unfortunate.”Also Read: Teresa Halbach’s Family: ‘Making a Murderer’ Is ‘Terrible’Also Read: Teresa Halbach’s Family: ‘Making a Murderer’ Is ‘Terrible’Bomb Threat at Manitowoc County Sheriff's DepartmentOn Feb. 3, 2016, a bomb threat was called into the Sheriff's Department. Authorities say that the caller claimed “there were bombs in the building” and that he was “getting justice” for Steven Avery.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Bomb Threat Targets Manitowoc Sheriff’s DepartmentAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Bomb Threat Targets Manitowoc Sheriff’s DepartmentTranscript Suggests Avery Touched Dassey InappropriatelyIn February 2016, TheWrap obtained transcripts from a May 13, 2006 interview, in which Dassey told police that Avery sometimes tried to grab his penis “through the pants.” In a phone call later that day to his mother, Barb Tadych, Dassey said he told police that Avery “would grab me somewhere where I was uncomfortable.”Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Reporter: Evidence Ignored That Steven Avery Sexually Abused Brendan DasseyAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Reporter: Evidence Ignored That Steven Avery Sexually Abused Brendan DasseyDassey Denies the Sexual AbuseDespite the transcripts,  a 2006 mental evaluation said psychologist Robert H. Gordon concluded that Dassey had not been molested.“Brendan reported having no history of being physically or sexually abused,” Gordon wrote.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Brendan Dassey Denied Sexual Abuse in Psych EvaluationAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Brendan Dassey Denied Sexual Abuse in Psych EvaluationSteven Avery Jr. Doesn't Know If His Father Is GuiltyAvery’s son had “no idea” whether his father is guilty of the murder of Teresa Halbach, for which he’s currently serving life in prison.“I have no idea,” Steven Avery Jr. told Crime Watch Daily in an interview. “I mean … only one person can answer that and that is Teresa. But she can’t answer it no more.”Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Update: Steven Avery Jr. Has ‘No Idea’ If His Dad Is Guilty (Video)Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Update: Steven Avery Jr. Has ‘No Idea’ If His Dad Is Guilty (Video)Ken Kratz, Michael Griesbach Publish Tell-All BooksAvery prosecutor Ken Kratz and Michael Griesbach, the assistant district attorney responsible for helping Avery get out of jail in his first case, both wrote tell-all books chronicling the case and its representation in "Making a Murderer."Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Prosecutor to Write Tell-All BookAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Prosecutor to Write Tell-All BookKathleen Zellner Says There Are "a Couple" New SuspectsIn an in-depth profile published in March 2016 by Newsweek, Zellner said that she has found “a couple” of suspects, both of whom are men who knew Halbach. “We have a couple,” Zellner, who specializes in wrongful convictions, said. “I’d say there’s one, leading the pack by a lot. But I don’t want to scare him off, I don’t want him to run.” Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Update: Avery Lawyer Cites a ‘Couple’ of New Suspects in Teresa Halbach’s DeathAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Update: Avery Lawyer Cites a ‘Couple’ of New Suspects in Teresa Halbach’s DeathKen Kratz Had Suicidal ThoughtsKratz told Dr. Drew that he had suicidal thoughts after “this whole thing kind of blew up,” referring to the Avery Case and an Associated Press report exposing racy texts he sent to a 25-year-old woman while Kratz was prosecuting her ex-boyfriend. Prison Emails Are ReleasedIn June 2016, USA Today obtained more than 1,900 pages of emails after the publication requested the documents under state open records laws. The paper asked for emails sent or received by staff that pertained to Avery, Dassey or “Making a Murderer.”Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery, Brendan Dassey Prison Emails Released After 5 MonthsAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery, Brendan Dassey Prison Emails Released After 5 Months"Making a Murderer" Gets New EpisodesIn July 2016, it was announced that “Making a Murderer” is set to return to Netflix with new episodes that are already in production.The Season 2 installments will follow up with Avery and co-defendant Dassey as their respective investigative and legal teams challenge their convictions. Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ to Return to Netflix With New EpisodesAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ to Return to Netflix With New EpisodesBrendan Dassey's Conviction Is Overturned In August 2016, Dassey had his conviction overturned. Federal magistrate judge William E. Duffin granted Dassey’s writ for a petition of habeas corpus, finding that his imprisonment was unlawful because his confession to the murder of Teresa Halbach was involuntary.In reaching that decision, Duffin wrote that the “misconduct” of Len Kachinsky, Dassey’s court-appointed attorney, was “indefensible.”Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Subject Brendan Dassey’s Conviction OverturnedAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer’ Subject Brendan Dassey’s Conviction OverturnedMotion for Evidence Is FiledOn Aug. 27, 2016, Zellner filed a motion demanding physical evidence from the murder of Teresa Halbach for further scientific testing that she claims didn’t exist during the trial.In the filing, Zellner revealed that “Mr. Avery has already completed a series of tests that will conclusively establish his innocence” and that she intends to reveal the identity of an alternate suspect once she has the test results.Also Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery’s Lawyer Files Motion for New DNA TestsAlso Read: ‘Making a Murderer': Steven Avery’s Lawyer Files Motion for New DNA TestsZellner Teases Brendan Dassey DecisionOn Sept. 2, 2016, Zellner tweeted a picture of a man she helped exonerate in a murder case, who held a sign saying "It is over." A spokesperson from the Wisconsin DOJ denied all media speculation about the fate of Dassey.State Will Appeal Dassey's Overturned ConvictionThe state of Wisconsin said they would appeal Dassey's overturned conviction, saying that his confession "was voluntary and the investigators did not use constitutionally impermissible tactics." Avery Gets EngagedOn Sept. 24, 2016, news broke that Avery is engaged to be married. The lucky lady is Lynn Hartman, identified as a legal secretary — which might come in handy — from Las Vegas. The couple reportedly dated for eight months, but only met in person once.Nevermind, Avery Is NOT Engaged On Oct. 1, 2016 came the news that Avery has dumped Hartman because he believes she “is a golddigger,” Avery’s friend Sandra Greenman wrote on Facebook.Brendan Dassey Will Be ReleasedOn Nov. 14, 2016, a judge ordered Dassey’s supervised release, pending possible retrial.According to court documents obtained by TheWrap, U.S. Magistrate Judge William E. Duffin granted Dassey’s motion for release -- conditional upon his supervision by the U.S. Probation Office. Dassey will not be allowed to obtain a passport and can only travel in the court’s Eastern District of Wisconsin. He is not allowed to possess a weapon or any controlled substances.Wisconsin DOJ Files Emergency MotionOn Nov. 15, 2016, Attorney General Brad Schimel filed an emergency motion to stay Dassey’s release.Dassey Will Be Home for ThanksgivingDassey appeared headed home for Thanksgiving 2016 after the judge in his case rejected the state’s latest motion.According to a Wisconsin Department of Justice release obtained by TheWrap, Dassey will be discharged from prison no later than Friday at 8 p.m. Attorney General Brad Schimel plans to file an emergency motion on Wednesday in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit seeking a stay of this release order.Nope, He Won't Be Home For ThanksgivingOn Nov. 17, 2016, the judge ordered that Dassey remain in prison pending an appeal of his overturned conviction, Attorney General Brad Schimel said.“Moments ago, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit granted the State of Wisconsin’s motion to stay U.S. Magistrate Judge William Duffin’s order to release Mr. Brendan Dassey. Mr. Dassey will remain in prison pending the outcome of the appeal,” Schimel’s office said in a release.Fellow Inmate Says Avery Confessed to the MurderJoseph Evans, who is serving a life sentence for murdering his wife, alleged in a nine-page letter published on the Rockford Advocate that Avery described raping and killing Halbach.“He said he put the knife to Teresa’s throat as he guided her to his bedroom,” Evans wrote. “Steven said Teresa was crying and begging him not to kill her.”Zellner Alleges Teresa Halbach May Have Been Killed by Ex-BoyfriendIn June 2017, Zellner filed a 1,200-page notice for post conviction relief in Manitowoc County, Wisconsin, in which she alleged that Teresa Halbach’s ex-boyfriend may have killed her.The ex-boyfriend, Ryan Hillegas, has not responded to requests for comment.Federal Appeals Court Upholds Ruling That Dassey’s Confession Was CoercedIn June 2017, a federal appeals court upheld the ruling that Dassey’s conviction was coerced and he should be released from prison. The majority of the three-judge panel agreed with Judge William Duffin’s August ruling that Dassey’s confession of the murder of Teresa Halbach was involuntary and that investigators violated Dassey’s rights.State Requests Rehearing in Dassey's CaseIn July 2017, the Wisconsin Department of Justice requested a rehearing by the full U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit after the federal appeals court said his conviction was coerced. Avery Denied New TrialIn October 2018, Avery was denied a new trial by a Wisconsin judge. Judge Angela Sutkiewicz ruled that Avery had failed “to establish any grounds that would trigger the right to a new trial in the interests of justice.”Zellner then told TheWrap that she would be filing a motion to vacate the judge’s order and that she plans to conduct further testing and amend his petition with new witness affidavits.Judge Rejects Avery's Bid For New Trial, AgainIn November 2017, Avery's request for a new trial was rejected by Judge Sutkiewicz again. According to the Post-Crescent, the ruling comes after Zellner appealed her filings to a higher court. Supreme Court Declines to Hear Brendan Dassey's CaseIn June 2018, the Supreme Court of the United States declined to hear Brendan Dassey’s murder case. As is typical for such denials, no reason was given for passing on the appeal.Avery Denied a Trial, AgainIn September 2018, Avery was denied a new trial by Sheboygan County Circuit Court judge Angela Sutkiewicz.According to the Post-Crescent, Avery's attorneys sought to supplement the record with a CD they argued contains "exculpatory, material evidence" that was reportedly only disclosed to them in April. Avery's attorney, Kathleen Zellner, argued that the state failed to disclose the disc and violated his right to a fair trial, therefore arguing for a new trial. Netflix Will Release a Second SeasonNetflix officially announced a season season in September 2018. "Making a Murderer Part 2" will hit Netflix globally on Oct. 19.Catch up before you dive back into the lives of Steven Avery and Brendan DasseyAfter nearly three years, "Making a Murderer Part 2" is here. Before you dive back into Netflix's true-crime phenomenon, here's a look back at how the original docuseries changed the lives of Steven Avery and his nephew Brendan Dassey, who were convicted for the 2005 murder of Teresa Halbach.