“I haven’t spoken to her, I don’t follow her, I don’t talk to her,” says Trump at a press conference FridayDonald Trump praised some of his biggest allies on Fox News and conservative media but wasn’t as warm toward Ann Coulter — who has largely abandoned him in recent months over lack of progress on his promised border wall with Mexico.“Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do. Not of me. If I changed my views he wouldn’t be with me,” Trump said a Q&A session with media after he declared a national emergency on the Southern border. “Laura’s been great. Laura Ingraham. Tucker Carlson’s been great.”Trump expressed his frustration with Coulter, however, and the media that he said overstated her influence.Also Read: Erick Erickson, #NeverTrump Leader, Endorses Donald Trump in 2020“Ann Coulter, I don’t know her. I hardly know her. I haven’t spoken to her in way over a year. But the press loves saying Ann Coulter. Probably if I did speak to her she would be very nice. I just don’t have the time to speak to her,” he said. “But she’s off the reservation but anybody that knows her understands that. I haven’t spoken to her, I don’t follow her, I don’t talk to her.”Once one of his most loyal supporters, Coulter has increasingly ripped the president on Twitter in recent weeks and warned that not building a wall on the southern border would doom his reelection hopes in 2020.“He seems to think ‘the reservation’ is HIM, not his campaign promises,” Coulter tweeted following the press conference.Also Read: Trump Unfollows Ann Coulter on Twitter After Months of Border Wall CriticismTrump did, however, say he still “liked” Coulter and cited her accurate prediction during a June 2015 appearance on “Real Time With Bill Maher” that he would become president.Trump’s comments came as he officially announced that he would declare a state of emergency to secure the necessary funding to begin construction of his border wall with Mexico.“We will have a national emergency. And we will then be sued… And we will possibly get a bad ruling. And then we will get another bad ruling. And then we will end up in the Supreme Court,” Trump said, and also predicted he would ultimately be triumphant.Later today, Trump is expected to sign a funding bill compromise to prevent another government shutdown.There are still 22 months to go until the 2020 presidential election, but the competition to *maybe* replace Donald Trump in the White House is already stiff.The list already includes senators Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, former Obama cabinet member Julián Castro and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. And that's just people who have officially declared -- some high profile politicians and wannabes are teasing runs too. It's a lot to keep track of, but we're here to help. Here's TheWrap's list of everyone who has announced they are running for  president so far.Beto O'Rourke  - Democratic PartyThe former congressman from El Paso, Texas, announced he is running for president on March 14, saying: "This is a defining moment of truth for this country and for every single one of us," and that the challenges have never been greater. "They will either consume us, or they will afford us the greatest opportunity to unleash the genius of the United States of America," he added. O'Rourke has already made a name for himself as a record-breaking fundraiser, the subject of an HBO documentary and a favorite among Hollywood elite.Bernie SandersDemocratic PartyBernie Sanders, the runner-up in the 2016 contest for the Democratic nomination, has recorded a campaign video in which he says he is running for president in 2020, according to a report in Politico.Elizabeth Warren -Democratic PartyThe Massachusetts Senator formally announced her candidacy on Feb. 9 at a rally in her home state, and shortly after followed up with a tweet that read: "I believe in an America of opportunity. My daddy ended up as a janitor, but his little girl got the chance to be a public school teacher, a college professor, a United States Senator – and a candidate for President of the United States. #Warren2020."Tulsi Gabbard -Democratic PartyGabbard, a U.S. Representative for Hawaii's 2nd congressional district, endorsed Bernie Sanders in 2016, but in 2020 she's all-in on herself. She told CNN's Van Jones on Jan. 12 that she intends to run, and would make "a formal announcement within the next week." That announcement hasn't happened yet, but her Twitter account is bedecked with campaign branding.  Julián Castro -Democratic PartyThe former mayor of San Antonio -- and former Obama cabinet member -- entered the presidential race on Jan. 12. Kirsten Gillibrand -Democratic PartyThe Senator from New York announced her bid Tuesday, Jan. 15 on "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert."Kamala Harris -Democratic PartyThe California senator announced her bid for the presidency on Martin Luther King Jr. Day,  Jan. 21, while appearing on ABC’s "Good Morning America." As a possible indication of her chances, her recent CNN town hall was the network's highest rated single presidential candidate town hall ever.Pete Buttegieg -Democratic PartyThe 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, announced his presidential exploratory committee on Jan. 23. If he prevails in next year's primary, he'll be the first openly gay presidential nominee from a major political party.Cory Booker -Democratic PartyThe New Jersey senator and former mayor of Newark formally tossed his name into the presidential hat on Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month.Marianne Williamson -Democratic PartyThe "Healing the Soul of America" author and founder of Project Angel Food announced her candidacy during a political rally at the Saban Theater in Los Angeles on Jan. 28.Andrew Yang -Democratic PartyThe entrepreneur and son of immigrant parents from Taiwan became a contender a year ago, telling The New York Times that he will advocate for a universal basic income. John Delaney -- Democratic PartyThe U.S. Representative for Maryland's 6th district declared back in July 2017. He says he'll "end reckless trade wars and expand trade," "create a universal health care system" and "launch a national AI strategy."  Amy Klobuchar -Democratic PartyThe Minnesota Democrat, first elected to the U.S. Senate in 2006, announced her bid on Feb. 10, 2019, saying that she wanted to work for "everyone who wanted their work recognized."Honorable Mention:  Joe Biden  -Democratic Party The former Obama VP hasn't formally declared or even launched an exploratory committee, but he's been telling anyone who'll listen that he'd be the most qualified candidate for months. To win, he'll have to contend not only with his opponents, but also his own record.Honorable Mention:  Howard Schultz  -Independent  Like Biden, the former Starbucks CEO hasn't formally declared, but he's teased a possible run as an independent on the book tour for his autobiography. Given widespread fears that a third party candidate could help ensure a Trump victory, so far Schultz's hypothetical candidacy isn't going over well, according to a recent poll.Schultz is a co-founder of the venture capital firm Maveron, which is an investor in TheWrap.The crop of candidates already includes Beto O’Rourke, Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and moreThere are still 22 months to go until the 2020 presidential election, but the competition to *maybe* replace Donald Trump in the White House is already stiff.The list already includes senators Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, former Obama cabinet member Julián Castro and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. And that's just people who have officially declared -- some high profile politicians and wannabes are teasing runs too. It's a lot to keep track of, but we're here to help. Here's TheWrap's list of everyone who has announced they are running for  president so far.