“I take this threat very seriously,” rapper says about officer accused of telling his men to “shoot him on sight” during roll callGetty ImagesNYPD has opened an investigation into a Brooklyn commander whom a whistleblower says told his officers to shoot 50 Cent “on sight,” leading the rapper to call out the officer on social media as a “dirty cop.”According to the New York Daily News, the threat in question was said to be made at the 72nd Precinct in Sunset Park this past June by Deputy Inspector Emmanuel Gonzalez, who was the commanding officer. The Daily News wrote that during roll call it was mentioned that 50 Cent, real name Curtis Jackson, was set to appear at an NYPD-sanctioned boxing event. According to the person who filed the complaint, Gonzalez suggested that the officers “shoot him on sight.”Also Read: 50 Cent Taunts Kanye West Over Meeting With 'Master' TrumpThe roll call was not recorded, and Gonzalez tried to pass off the remark as a joke, but a police spokesperson has confirmed to TheWrap that an internal review has now been launched at NYPD headquarters, with Gonzalez remaining on active duty.“This is how I wake up this morning,” Jackson said Sunday on Twitter in response to the reports of the internal review. “This guy Emanuel Gonzales [sic] is a dirty cop abusing his POWER. The sad part is this man still has a badge and a gun. I take this threat very seriously and I’m consulting with my legal counsel regarding my options moving forward.”Also Read: 50 Cent Signs New Development Deal With Starz That Includes 3-Series CommitmentThis isn’t the first time Jackson has spoken out about Gonzalez on social media. A month prior to the boxing event, the rapper criticized Gonzalez over reports that the officer was being sued by Imran Jairam, owner of the Sunset Park hip-hop club Love and Lust. Jairam accused Gonzalez of using his authority to force his club to shut down by revoking its liquor license after he refused the officer’s demands to provide him with 11 round-trip tickets to Puerto Rico and to provide a doctor with a generator after the island was ravaged by Hurricane Maria.Gonzalez filed an aggressive harassment complaint against Jackson for an Instagram post mentioning the report of the lawsuit and in which Jackson wrote “get the strap”; slang for “get the gun.” Gonzalez accused Jackson of inciting violence against him, but according to the Daily News, Jackson was cheered at the event and received chants of “get the strap” when he was introduced.Axl RoseAfter Guns N' Roses frontman learned that "Sweet Child O' Mine" was being played at the president's rallies, Rose fired off a series of tweets accusing Trump of using licensing loopholes to ignore his request to stop playing the band's music. "Unfortunately the Trump campaign is using loopholes in the various venues’ blanket performance licenses which were not intended for such craven political purposes, without the songwriters’ consent," Rose tweeted on Nov. 4, 2018. PharrellOn Oct. 27, 2018, the day after the synagogue shooting in Pittsburgh that left 11 dead, Trump played Pharrell's 2013 summer hit "Happy" at a rally in Indiana, according to reports. Pharell's attorney  Howard King sent a cease and desist to Trump with a statement regarding the usage. "There was nothing 'happy' about the tragedy inflicted upon our country on Saturday and no permission was granted for your use of this song for this purpose," the letter read. Neil YoungIf you go way back to when Trump first announced he would be running for president at the Trump Tower in 2015, you may remember that Neil Young took issue with Trump's use of "Rockin' in the Free World." "Donald Trump was not authorized to use 'Rockin' in the Free World’ in his presidential candidacy announcement," a spokesperson for the musician's Lookout Management said in a statement in 2015. Young recently reiterated his feelings on his official Facebook page: "Legally, he has the right to, however it goes against my wishes."Prince's estateAccording to Rolling Stone, Prince's estate had to issue a statement after various Trump rallies played "Purple Rain." "The Prince Estate has never given permission to President Trump or The White House to use Prince's songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately," Prince's half-brother Omarr Baker wrote on Twitter Thursday, Oct. 11, 2018. AdeleTrump didn't stop at the rock genre when choosing his campaign playlists. After it got around that his rallies included songs like "Rolling in the Deep" and "Skyfall," a spokesperson for singer Adele made clear she wanted no part of it. "Adele has not given permission for her music to be used for any political campaigning," her spokesman told The Guardian at the time.The Rolling StonesThe Rolling Stones have tried to stop Trump from playing the band's music on several occasions, including after Trump accepted the bid to be the Republican Party's nominee in 2016 to the tune of "Start Me Up."  "The Rolling Stones have never given permission to the Trump campaign to use their songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately," a Stones spokesperson said in a statement to The Daily Beast. R.E.M.At a Trump rally in Washington D.C. Sept. 2015, R.E.M.'s "It's the End of the World" played while Trump walked up the podium. Word of the band's song playing at the rally prompted the band's official Facebook page to release a statement: "While we do not authorize or condone the use of our music at this political event, and do ask that these candidates cease and desist from doing so, let us remember that there are things of greater importance at stake here. The media and the American voter should focus on the bigger picture, and not allow grandstanding politicians to distract us from the pressing issues of the day and of the current Presidential campaign."Elton JohnAccording to CNN,  Elton John was among the major names the Trump administration reached out to to perform at his inauguration. John's team declined. But even before then, John's team publicly denounced any use of his songs for Trump's benefit. "Elton's music has not been requested for use in any official capacity by Donald Trump. Any use of his music should not be seen as an endorsement of Donald Trump by Elton," John's publicist said, according to the British newspaper The Telegraph.Steven TylerIn 2015, Aerosmith frontman Steven Tyler's reps sent a demand to Trump's team to stop playing "Dream On" at his rallies, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Unlike other similar demands, Trump publicly announced he would stop. "Even though I have the legal right to use Steven Tyler's song, he asked me not to," Trump tweeted. "Have better one to take its place!" QueenThe anthemic "We Are the Champions" played while Trump walked up to the stage during the Republican National Convention in July 2016. Queen member Brian May released a personal statement regarding the usage: "Regardless of our views on Mr. Trump's platform, it has always been against our policy to allow Queen music to be used as a political campaigning tool. Our music embodies our own dreams and beliefs, but it is for all who care to listen and enjoy."The O'JaysO'Jays lead vocalist Eddie Levert spoke out in 2016 about the use of "Love Train" during Trump's presidential rallies. "I wish him the best, but I don't think he's the man to run our country. So when he started using 'Love Train,' I called him up and told them, 'Listen, man, I don't believe in what you're doing. I'm not with you. I don't want you to use my voice. I'm not condoning what you're doing," Levert told Billboard. RihannaOver the weekend of Nov. 3, 2018, Washington Post bureau chief Philip Rucker tweeted that Rihanna's 2007 hit "Don't Stop the Music" was playing during one of Trump's Tennessee rallies. Rihanna herself responded to the tweet, saying: "Not for much longer... me nor my people would ever be at or around one of those tragic rallies, so thanks for the heads up philip!" From Guns N’ Roses frontman Axl Rose to pop star RihannaAxl RoseAfter Guns N' Roses frontman learned that "Sweet Child O' Mine" was being played at the president's rallies, Rose fired off a series of tweets accusing Trump of using licensing loopholes to ignore his request to stop playing the band's music. "Unfortunately the Trump campaign is using loopholes in the various venues’ blanket performance licenses which were not intended for such craven political purposes, without the songwriters’ consent," Rose tweeted on Nov. 4, 2018. 