“I watch AOC with a lot of hope, but I’m also cringing,” co-host Mika Brzezinski saysThe set of “Morning Joe” was not happy about the decision by Amazon to pull out of their new planned headquarters in New York City yesterday, laying the blame for the decision at the feet of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and fellow recalcitrant progressive lawmakers.On set there was near unanimity that Ocasio-Cortez did not understand the broader situation and was unfamiliar with basic economics.“The protests that we saw were to get on AOC’s bandwagon. And what’s shocking to me is yet once again she shows how little she understands, about not just economics, but even unemployment,” show mainstay Susan Del Percio said. “Just because she has a progressive agenda, which some people like, does not mean she has the city’s best interests. What she showed me today, or yesterday, is that she only cares about herself.”Also Read: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Joins Sundance After All, by WebcastOn set, there was also much discussion about how public polling generally showed that ordinary New Yorkers had supported Amazon’s plan, including large majorities of black and Latino voters.“End of the line, the people who wanted the jobs the least to come to the area were white elites in Manhattan, according to all of the polls,” Joe Scarborough added.Even Mika Brzezinski, typically sympathetic to Ocasio-Cortez, said the whole situation made her “cringe.”“She needs to follow some of the more successful more mature members. I would suggest Nancy Pelosi would be a great example,” she said. “But you don’t know what you don’t know and you’re going to step in it if you’re not careful. And they have a few times. I watch AOC with a lot of hope, but I’m also cringing because I’d love to give her some advice.”Also Read: Amazon Cancels Plans for New York City CampusReps for Ocasio-Cortez did not immediately respond to request for comment.On Thursday, Amazon officially made the momentous decision, with the company citing New York City’s hostile political climate as a cause.“While polls show that 70 percent of New Yorkers support our plans and investment, a number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward with the project we and many others envisioned in Long Island City,” Amazon said in a statement.Though she took heat from the political class, AOC was celebrated by her base after the pullout and exulted on Twitter when the decision was announced.“Anything is possible: today was the day a group of dedicated, everyday New Yorkers & their neighbors defeated Amazon’s corporate greed, its worker exploitation, and the power of the richest man in the world,” she said.2018 was hard for a lot of media folks, but particularly so for this rogues' gallery. For some, it was MeToo. For others, industry headwinds were too much. And for more still, disgrace and ignominy came after just saying the wrong thing.Les Moonves: Once celebrated for his leadership at CBS, Moonves faced multiple allegations of sexual harassment and misconduct for which he was ultimately fired. CBS said in December that it would seek to deny him a roughly $120-million severance package.  Laura Ingraham: Long a divisive figure (even on the right), the Fox News host might have avoided the losers' column were it not for a sponsor boycott launched against her by Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg in March. Months later, advertisers are still wary of appearing on the program. Also Read: Laura Ingraham Compares Confederate Statue Protesters to ISISAlso Read: Laura Ingraham Compares Confederate Statue Protesters to ISISMichael Ferro/Tronc: The leadership of Michael Ferro has now made Tronc synonymous with mismanagement. In addition to leaving the top job with a #MeToo scandal over his head, Ferro is now facing accusations of making anti-semitic remarks and paying off an LA Times editor who reportedly had the comments on tape. Media Publishers: From Mic.com on the left to The Weekly Standard on the right, publishers came in for a beating, with some closing up entirely. With few exceptions, legacy shops saw print sales decline, while digital-first properties continue to face the crushing economics of turning pageviews into profits.   Breitbart: It's a name you probably haven't heard for a while. Once a key part of the engine which powered Trump's improbable election, the website had long fallen off most radars. A sustained pressure campaign against advertisers on the site by Sleeping Giants has also taken a bite out of revenue.Also Read: Breitbart and Drudge Hit by Google Cloud Issue, Go OfflineAlso Read: Breitbart and Drudge Hit by Google Cloud Issue, Go OfflineMarc Lamont Hill: Once a CNN regular, Hill lost his job as a contributor on the network after making remarks about Israel and Palestine at the UN that many called anti-semitic. A chummy photo with Louis Farrakhan -- who has compared Jews to termites -- didn't help matters for him either. He remains a tenured professor at Temple University. Also Read: CNN Fires Contributor Marc Lamont Hill Over Israel Remarks (Video)Also Read: CNN Fires Contributor Marc Lamont Hill Over Israel Remarks (Video)CBS and "60 Minutes": Both the network and its marquee news program took a beating this year. "60 Minutes" executive producer Jeff Fager was forced out in a MeToo scandal, while details of an investigation launched by the network generally hit the press before reaching top management.   Michael Avenatti: Just months ago, the lawyer representing Stormy Daniels in her legal fight with Donald Trump was considered a serious presidential contender. But his reputation took a hit after taking on a questionable MeToo claim against Brett Kavanaugh, and he disappeared for good after being booked on felony domestic violence charges in November (though he was not charged).Also Read: Michael Avenatti Says He Won’t Run for President in 2020 After AllAlso Read: Michael Avenatti Says He Won’t Run for President in 2020 After AllAndy Lack: The MSNBC/NBC News chief had a rough 2018. His network's decision to pass on Ronan Farrow's historic MeToo reporting continues to reverberate. His big bet on Megyn Kelly also flopped and became a multi-million dollar ulcer which still remains far from resolved.Gavin McInnes: Always on the fringes, McInnes had nevertheless carved a niche for himself as an online provocateur, a host on CRTV and as the head of his own (occasionally violent/racist) fraternal organization, The Proud Boys. By the end of 2018, he was banned from Twitter, dropped by CRTV and had resigned from The Proud Boys. Univision: Univision spent $135 million on Gawker Media back in 2016 and has spent most of the time since mismanaging the former properties and being called out by its own writers. Amid buyouts to editorial and broad layoffs elsewhere, Univision revealed it is looking to cut its losses and unload the websites once and for all. Also Read: Univision Unveils New Strategy to Drive Millennials From Their Phones to the TV (Exclusive)Also Read: Univision Unveils New Strategy to Drive Millennials From Their Phones to the TV (Exclusive)2018 was a rough year for media, and for this rogues’ gallery, the damage was particularly catastrophic2018 was hard for a lot of media folks, but particularly so for this rogues' gallery. For some, it was MeToo. For others, industry headwinds were too much. And for more still, disgrace and ignominy came after just saying the wrong thing.