“Nothing funny about tired Saturday Night Live on Fake News NBC!” the president tweeted about Baldwin’s latest “SNL” appearanceGetty Images; NBCCould Alec Baldwin’s latest “Saturday Night Live” skit that mocked President Donald Trump actually put him and his family in danger? That’s what the actor wants to know.“I wonder if a sitting President exhorting his followers that my role in a TV comedy qualifies me as an enemy of the people constitutes a threat to my safety and that of my family?” Baldwin tweeted on Sunday night.The comment was in response to Trump’s angry reaction much earlier in the day to Baldwin’s skit about his national emergency declaration to build a wall at the U.S.-Mexico border.Also Read: Alec Baldwin's Latest 'SNL' Sketch Has Trump in Another Twitter Rant“Nothing funny about tired Saturday Night Live on Fake News NBC!” the president said on Twitter. “Question is, how do the Networks get away with these total Republican hit jobs without retribution? Likewise for many other shows? Very unfair and should be looked into. This is the real Collusion!”“THE RIGGED AND CORRUPT MEDIA IS THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!,” he added.Also Read: 'SNL': Alec Baldwin's Trump Returns to Tell Us How His 'Personal Hell of Playing President' Will End (Video)The cold open sketch on “SNL” started with Baldwin’s Trump lying about his height and weight.“I’m here to declare a very urgent, important national emergency,” he said. “This is a big one, so I don’t want to waste any time. I just had a great health exam. I’m still standing 6 foot 7, 185 pounds. Shredded.”When a reporter played by Kyle Mooney noted that statistics have found that undocumented immigrants have a lower crime rate than American citizens, Baldwin’s Trump responded, “Those numbers are faker than this emergency.”“Wall works. Wall makes safe,” he also said. “Abuelas and bebes unless you give me wall.”Watch the sketch by clicking here.In the world of sketch comedy, there is no fraternity more prestigious than the "Saturday Night Live Five-Timers Club." Those who have proven their worthiness by hosting "SNL" five times are invited into an elite circle, where they don luxurious satin robes, smoke expensive cigars and, for their entertainment, watch current cast members fight to the death.Alec Baldwin - 17 Not counting his many guest appearances to play guys like Donald Trump, Baldwin has hosted 16 times, passing Steve Martin's record in 2011. Martin was there that night to demand a surprise drug test.Steve Martin - 15 The esteemed president of the Five-Timers Club was also the fastest to get to that milestone, hosting his fifth less than two years after hosting his first. In total, Martin has hosted fifteen times, most recently in 2009.John Goodman - 13Goodman ranks third on the all-time "SNL" hosting list with 13 episodes, behind only Steve Martin and Alec Baldwin.Buck Henry - 10 From 1976 to 1980, it was tradition for the "Heaven Can Wait" director to host the "SNL" season finale. In total, Henry hosted 10 episodes, including a Mardi Gras special.Tom Hanks - 8 Hanks' fifth go-around as host in 1990 was what spawned the Five-Timers Club sketch. His 2016 appearance marks his eighth time hosting the show.Chevy Chase - 8 The original anchor of "Weekend Update" hosted "SNL" eight times after being the first original cast member to leave in the middle of the show's second season.Christopher Walken - 7 Walken was the first person to join the Five-Timers Club in the 21st Century after making his fifth appearance in May 2001.Drew Barrymore - 6 Though we haven't seen her in a Five-Timers' robe, her portrait is in the club's luxurious quarters. She holds the record for youngest host ever, having appeared on the show at age 7 following the release of "E.T." in 1982.Elliot Gould - 6 Gould hosted the show five times in the '70s, but his sixth appearance was his last after being blindsided by the sudden departure of Lorne Michaels from the show in 1980.Danny DeVito - 6 Shortly after playing The Penguin in "Batman Returns," DeVito joined the club with an "SNL" appearance in January 1993.Candice Bergen - 5 Bergen was the first woman to host "SNL" and hosted five times from 1975 to 1990.Bill Murray - 5 After starring on the show in Seasons 2-5, Murray returned to host five times in the '80s and '90s.Ben Affleck - 5 The man "SNL" once mocked for his film "Gigli" joined the Five-Timers club in 2013, shortly after winning the Best Picture Oscar for "Argo."Tina Fey - 5 Arguably the most famous "SNL" cast member among millennials, Tina Fey joined the Club in 2015 after a hosting career that included (and still includes) her famous Sarah Palin impression.Justin Timberlake - 5 The pop star's fifth appearance in 2013 saw "SNL" bring back the "Five-Timers" sketch, as Timberlake's induction was celebrated with a brawl between cast members Bobby Moynihan and Taran Killam.Scarlett Johansson - 5 The actress made her fifth appearance in 2016, and kicked off her monologue by putting on a Five-Timers jacket handed to her by Kenan Thompson.Melissa McCarthy - 5 After a season of guest appearances as Donald Trump's White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, McCarthy grabbed her Five-Timers jacket in Season 42.The Rock - 5 Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson hosted the finale of the 42nd season of "SNL"Jonah Hill - 5 Hill's five appearances as host spanned a decade, with the first coming in 2008 and the fifth on Nov. 3, 2018.Paul Simon - 4Technically, Simon only hosted four times, but he's been included in "Five-Timers Club" sketches since he was the musical guest on a fifth show. He also owns arguably the most emotional moment in the history of "SNL": his performance of "The Boxer" in the cold open of the first post-9/11 episode.TheWrap looks back at those who’ve joined the most elite club in sketch comedyIn the world of sketch comedy, there is no fraternity more prestigious than the "Saturday Night Live Five-Timers Club." Those who have proven their worthiness by hosting "SNL" five times are invited into an elite circle, where they don luxurious satin robes, smoke expensive cigars and, for their entertainment, watch current cast members fight to the death.