The conspiracy at the heart of HBO’s third season of “True Detective” is finally coming to lightHBO(Spoilers ahead for Season 3, episode 6 of “True Detective”)It took a while for “True Detective” Season 3 to get to the point, spending the first five episodes ambling through this mystery with very few clues to help viewers figure out what in the world is happening here.But I had an idea, after that first Sunday when the first two episodes of the season aired. I suggested that the kidnapping of the Purcell children was part of a conspiracy involving the Hoyt family of Hoyt Foods. That would be a very “True Detective” direction for this story to go, and with nothing that really firmly pointed at any suspects, that seemed like the most logical guess at the time.And as the season went on, continuing to avoid presenting a plausible list of suspects, I couldn’t help but assume that the Hoyt family had to be involved. And, finally, the sixth episode appeared to confirm that idea.Also Read: 'True Detective' Drops to 1.4 Million Viewers With Season 3 PremiereThere had been hints about a conspiracy from time to time in the first five episodes — mainly when Hays (Mahershala Ali) would talk about how it seemed an awful lot like the local prosecutor was overly eager to steer the case in the wrong direction. And then we he shut down the case altogether after the shootout at Brett Woodard’s place, eager to pin the whole thing on a dead man. But these were more like random thoughts than firm accusations of some kind of impropriety. Hays seemed to think the guy just was trying to get ahead in his career by wrapping up a high profile case with a quick conviction.The concept of a conspiracy was first broached for real when Hays and West (Stephen Dorff) met with Dan O’Brien (Micheal Graziadei) in 1990. Cousin Dan said that Lucy Purcell, the mother of the kidnapped kids, had been paid by a man who wanted her to stop talking about the case. Somebody was paying her hush money. But Dan wouldn’t give up the name of the man without being paid himself.But Tom Purcell, later, overheard some other detectives talking about that situation and sought out Dan himself, beating him until he finally gave up the name. We didn’t hear it ourselves, but we saw what Tom did next — he went to the Hoyt estate, sneaked into the basement, and found a child’s room, painted pink. A room that young Julie Purcell had described being held in to a friend when she was a kid on the run.And then a man sneaked up behind Tom and seemingly knocked him out, ending the episode.Also Read: HBO's Casey Bloys Talks 'Game of Thrones' Final Season Trailer, Episode Lengths and Spinoff StatusThat man, Harris James (Scott Shepherd), is one we’ve met before. He was the police officer who identified a backpack found on Woodard’s property as belonging to Will Purcell, who had been found dead in 1980. And in this episode, Hays and West paid him a visit to talk about that, and how he ended up quitting his job as a cop to work at Hoyt Foods.The implication here, of course, is that James was always part of Hoyt’s conspiracy, on the payroll even when he was still police. And James’ involvement implies plenty more than just that.Though it seems clear right now that some member of the Hoyt family, or all of them, is responsible for the Purcell kidnapping, what isn’t clear is just how far this conspiracy spreads. Looking back on certain scenes in earlier episodes, my guess is that the Hoyt conspiracy has its tentacles reaching all over the place.The tell, at least how I see it, comes from several of the people Hays and West interviewed about the case in 1980. A lot of locals wanted to point the finger at Woodard, but we met several others who mentioned a black man with a “dead eye.” And we met such a man, twice now.Also Read: HBO Shares 14 New 'Game of Thrones' Season 8 Photos, And Everybody Looks Basically the SameFirst, when Hays and West went to his home to ask him about the whole thing in 1980, which nearly started a riot in the neighborhood. This man’s dead eye was his right. The second time was in 1990, at Amelia Hays’ book reading. He interrupted the proceedings to harshly ask if she had done anything to help, or if she knew where Julie was now. This man’s dead eye was his left. Hmmm.What these characters’ place in the story remains unknown, and maybe they’re involved in the conspiracy somehow. Or maybe he’s Hoyt’s opposition, and Hoyt’s people — the Hoyt family’s influence is spread around — are trying to direct blame toward him as part of some kind of gambit.But who knows? I presume we’ll learn that character’s significance before the end of “True Detective” season 3. And there’s only two episodes left, so that will be very soon.“True Detective” airs Sunday nights at 9 p.m. on HBO.Rachel McAdams has played everything from the bitchy prom queen in "Mean Girls" to the studious and cutthroat journalist in "Spotlight," demonstrating range as a dramatic actress and comedienne. This week she stars in the R-rated comedy "Game Night" alongside Jason Bateman. Maybe "Fetch" was never going to happen, but looking back at her career, you knew McAdams would eventually hit it big. "The Famous Jett Jackson"Cute little Rachel McAdams got her break playing a guest role on the Disney Channel show "The Famous Jett Jackson.""Mean Girls"  She then showed her darker side and terrified us as queen bee Regina George in the 2004 comedy "Mean Girls." "The Notebook"  Pull out the Kleenex! McAdams and Ryan Gosling stole our hearts in the epic 2004 tearjerker "The Notebook," based on a Nicholas Sparks novel."Wedding Crashers"  McAdams came along for the raunchy ride with Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn in 2005's hit comedy "Wedding Crashers." "The Lucky Ones"   McAdams played a soldier returning from war alongside Tim Robbins in 2008's "The Lucky Ones.""Sherlock Holmes"  McAdams made a turn toward mainstream franchises, playing a professional thief in 2009's "Sherlock Holmes" with Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law. "Midnight in Paris"  McAdams teamed up with Owen Wilson (again) and Woody Allen for the 2011 Oscar winner "Midnight in Paris," kicking off a stretch of prestige films in which she worked with auteur director such as Terrence Malick on "To the Wonder," Brian de Palma on "Passion" and Wim Wenders on "Every Thing Will Be Fine."  "A Most Wanted Man"  The actress co-starred with the late Philip Seymour Hoffman in one of his last roles in 2014's "A Most Wanted Man," directed by Anton Corbijn. "Aloha"  McAdams put on a lei and a hula dress to join Bradley Cooper and Emma Stone in the 2015 Hawaiian-based misfire."True Detective"  McAdams plays a detective with strong morals struggling in a corrupt system in Season 2 of HBO's "True Detective.""Spotlight"  McAdams would be nominated for her first Oscar for portraying Boston Globe journalist Sacha Pfeiffer in the Best Picture-winning "Spotlight." "Doctor Strange"  McAdams made her superhero movie debut in 2016, starring as a surgeon opposite Benedict Cumberbatch in the Marvel film "Doctor Strange.""Game Night"  McAdams returned to her comedic roots in 2018 with "Game Night," starring with Jason Bateman as a couple that hosts a game night with friends that goes violently, and hilariously, wrong. McAdams has gone from queen of the Plastics to “True Detective” to an Oscar nominee in the span of her careerRachel McAdams has played everything from the bitchy prom queen in "Mean Girls" to the studious and cutthroat journalist in "Spotlight," demonstrating range as a dramatic actress and comedienne. This week she stars in the R-rated comedy "Game Night" alongside Jason Bateman. Maybe "Fetch" was never going to happen, but looking back at her career, you knew McAdams would eventually hit it big. 