First film grossed $125 million globally on a $4.5 million budgetUniversalJessica Rothe died 11 times in the first “Happy Death Day” film, and although she “only” died eight times in the sequel, she can finally add skydiving into the mix.“I think this time I’m pretty sure it was only eight times [that I died],” Rothe told TheWrap. “That being said, Chris and I haven’t actually talked about this but my understanding is that Tree dies many more times than we see on screen. In the first film, she only died as many times as we saw. Because of her new mission and what she has to do, I decided for myself that this has been going on for a while.”Rothe’s favorite, yet most challenging death scene was skydiving, where she jumped out of a plane wearing only a pink bikini.See Video: 'Happy Death Day 2U' Trailer: Jessica Rothe Is Stuck Reliving Her Murder Again“That was broken into two parts — the first part was just me doing a trust fall out of the airplane onto some mats. It was really fun and silly,” she explained. “The second part — where I’m falling through the frame in slow motion — they built like a dunk tank platform and they pull me up seven or eight feet above the ground with pads below, and they’d count to three, and then I would just drop out from underneath. It happened so quickly that in order to get the facial expression and the physical pose, I would just have to tense my body as much as humanly possible because I just never knew when they were going to drop me. And it was surprisingly hard because I was in a swimsuit they couldn’t put me in a harness and I was falling in real time, and trying to look super cool and casual which was kind of a mindf—.”In “Happy Death Day 2U,” Tree is once again stuck in a time loop on her birthday, where she wakes up to find a killer in a baby mask on a mission to kill her. But this time, the killer is also after her friends, and Tree must die over and over again to get them out of this mess and to discover who the killer is.“The sequel starts where the first film left off,” Rothe said. “She is empowered, she has learned all these lessons and she’s ready to take them into the world. Even though the tables have turned and she thinks she’s escaped the situation, she’s going to handle things differently… And to have her continue fighting back was important to me as we developed the second film. There is more of an emotional arc in the second movie — that’s a part of Tree that we knew was there but we didn’t get to explore it as much in the first film. That’s what excited me about returning to the character — the chance of peeling back the layers even more and really seeing that more intimate, vulnerable side of Tree.”There has been talk about a third “Happy Death Day” film given the critical and commercial success of the first and the inevitable triumph of the second. The first “Happy Death Day” scored a 71 percent on Rotten Tomatoes and earned a whopping $125 million globally — although it was made for just $4.5 million. The follow-up was produced for around double the budget.Also Read: 'Happy Death Day' Star Jessica Rothe on Dying 11 Times in New Horror MovieThe second film’s title was a pun, and Rothe has an idea for the third movie’s title, assuming there is one.“Someone tweeted ‘Happy Death Day Tree,’ and I want to find that person and pay them whatever rights we need to to use it,” she said. “That’s the best one I’ve heard so far.”Other ideas floating around on Twitter have included “Happy Death Day <3,” “Happy D3ath Day”  and “Happy Death Day 3D.”And Rothe has died many, many times, in many, many different ways. But her preferred way to go would be “dumped in chocolate cake” or skydiving: “The sensation of falling was kind of fun.”"The Babadook" (2014)Essie Davis stars as a single mother who is horrified to discover the monster from her son's nightmares might be real. It's a brilliant psychological character study about a struggling mother on the brink of collapse, but then evolves into a truly fantastical horror parable. "Hellraiser" (1987)Written and directed by Clive Barker, "Hellraiser" is the first in a nine-film series about the gateway to the world of Cenobites, monsters that harvest and torture human souls."Creep" (2014)Patrick Brice's found footage horror film follows a man who begins to suspect he's in danger after he responds a cryptic Craigslist job listing. And be sure to also check out the new sequel! "Oculus" (2013)A recent overlooked gem, "Oculus" finds a brother and sister dealing with an evil mirror that may have been responsible for the deaths of their parents when they were children."The Human Centipede: The First Sequence" (2009)As gross as it gets, this twisted body horror film imagines humans being stitched together, connected by their gastrointestinal systems. The sequel is also on Netflix, but you'll have to venture to Hulu to see the end of the trilogy. "Let Me In" (2010)"Let Me In" is a remake of the (better) Swedish vampire movie "Let the Right One In" about a young female vampire (Chloe Moretz) who befriends a timid boy (Kodi Smit-McPhee). But Matt Reeves' chillingly lensed film has themes of American politics that the Swedish version didn't touch on and help this remake stand on its own. "It Follows" (2014)A monster that can take any human form slowly stalks and kill you unless you have sex and pass along the bug. It's a killer premise and has an even better synth score that would put "Stranger Things" to shame. David Robert Mitchell's indie horror gem preys upon the idea of always looking over your shoulder and carrying around the guilt and shame of past sexual encounters. "The Invitation" (2015)Karyn Kusama's "The Invitation" is a remarkable character study where the real horror comes from the socially awkward dynamics between old friends. It has a few remarkable twists as you decipher whether something is really wrong or if you're just being paranoid. "Teeth" (2007)Pitched as a cautionary tale against male violence towards women, "Teeth" is about a girl who harbors a monstrous pair of teeth inside her, well ... down there. "The Sixth Sense" (1999)No matter how many times you've heard the twist or Haley Joel Osment's "I see dead people" line, M. Night Shyamalan's breakout film is still a remarkably taut horror/thriller. "Tale of Tales" (2015)For some arthouse horror, check out the black comedy fantasy of Matteo Garrone's "Tale of Tales." The film is a bloody, yet colorful and satirical take on several ancient Italian fables with themes of attachments, vices and being corrupted by power. "Byzantium" (2012)Saoirse Ronan and Gemma Arterton star in Neil Jordan's undead horror movie about two young women seeking refuge in a small, deserted guest house. They secretly have been alive for 200 years and subsist on human blood, which attracts the attention of unwanted guests. "XX" (2017)This collection of four short horror films features all-female directors, Karyn Kusama ("The Invitation"), Roxane Benjamin (producer on "V/H/S"), Jovanka Vukovich and indie rock guitarist St. Vincent making her directorial debut.  BONUS: "Friday the 13th" (1980)Unfortunately, the original '80s "Friday the 13th" isn't on Netflix, but you can find it on Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, or Epix. Unfortunately — and ironically — “Friday the 13th” is not available"The Babadook" (2014)Essie Davis stars as a single mother who is horrified to discover the monster from her son's nightmares might be real. It's a brilliant psychological character study about a struggling mother on the brink of collapse, but then evolves into a truly fantastical horror parable. 