The Swiss actor also starred in Wim Wenders’ “Wings of Desire”Getty ImagesBruno Ganz, the Swiss actor whose work ranged from playing an angel in Wim Wenders’ “Wings of Desire” to an on-the-edge-of-defeat Adolf Hitler in the much-memed “Downfall,” has died at age 77.He died at his home in Zurich on Friday after a diagnosis of colon cancer, his agent told France 24.In his long career, Ganz appeared in more than 80 films and TV movies, mostly in Europe. He starred as a hit man opposite Dennis Hopper in Wenders’ 1977 film noir “The American Friend,” and then reteamed with the director a decade later for “Wings of Desire,” playing an angel sent to earth to comfort dying humans, who begins to long for humanity for himself.Also Read: Hollywood's Notable Deaths of 2019 (Photos)In Werner Herzog’s 1979 “Nosferatu the Vampyre,” Ganz played the human Jonathan Harker to Klaus Kinski’s otherworldly Dracula. And he starred as a Venice cafe worker who romances a housewife in Silvio Soldoni’s 2000 film “Bread and Tulips,” for which he won a Donatello Award for Best Actor.But Ganz may be most famous for his portrayal of Hitler in Oliver Hirschbiegel’s Oscar-nominated 2004 drama “Downfall,” in which he alternated between fury and despair as the German fuhrer during his last days in a bunker.Also Read: Cannes Review: Pope Francis Documentary Is a Modest Film About a Bold ManClips from his performance delivering an angry tirade became one of the most-viewed internet memes just as social media platforms were spreading worldwide.Other notable credits include 1974’s “The Boys From Brazil,” Jonathan Demme’s 2004 remake of “The Manchurian Candidate” and Stephen Daldry’s 2008 Oscar winner “The Reader” with Kate Winslet and Barbet Schroeder’s 2017 drama “Amnesia.”Here's a list of some of the notable celebrities and industry professionals in film, TV, music and sports who have passed away in 2019. Joe Stapleton  The New England broadcaster who appeared in several Oscar-winning films like "Spotlight" and "Mystic River," died Jan. 1. Stapleton was 55. Daryl Dragon  One half of pop duo Captain and Tennille died Jan. 2 of renal failure, according to Reuters. He was 76.Gene Okurland  The famed WWE announcer, who frequently interviewed the likes of Hulk Hogan and Andre the Giant at their peak, died Jan. 2. Okurland was 76. Bob Einstein  The "Curb Your Enthusiasm" and "Arrested Development" actor (and brother of actor-filmmaker Albert Brooks) died  Jan. 2. Einstein was 76. Verna Bloom  The "Animal House" and “The Last Temptation of Christ" actress died Jan. 9. A family spokesperson told USA Today that Bloom died from complications from dementia. Bloom was 80.Mark Urman  The veteran indie film distributer, who was most recently president and CEO of New York-based Paladin Films, died Jan. 12 following a bout with cancer. He was 66.Carol Channing   The legendary Broadway and musical actress  ("Hello Dolly," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes") died Jan. 15. Channing was 97. Lorna Doom  The German bassist and founding member of the seminal Los Angeles-based punk band The Germs, died Jan. 17. She was 61. John Coughlin  The former champion figure skater died by suicide on Jan. 18. The news came days after Coughlin was suspended from the sport over a pending grievance. He was 33.Andy Vajna  The Hungarian producer who worked with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone on some of their most popular films, including "Rambo" and "Total Recall," died at his home in Budapest on Jan. 20. He was 74.Russell Baker  A two-time Pulitzer-winning writer and longtime host of PBS’ “Masterpiece Theatre,” Baker died Jan. 21 in his Lessburg, Virginia, home. Baker was 93. James Frawley  The director of “The Muppet Movie” and the show “The Monkees,” died on Jan. 22 at his home in Indian Wells, California. He was 82.Kevin Barnett  The comic and co-creator of "Rel," the Lil' Rel Howery-led sitcom on Fox, died Jan. 22 due to a hemorrhage. Barnett was 32.Michel Legrand   The French composer who won three Oscars for his songs ("The Windmills of Your Mind") and film scores ("Summer of '42," "Yentl") died Jan. 26. Legrand was 86.James IngramThe singer and songwriter whose hits included “I Don’t Have the Heart,”  died Jan. 29. According to TMZ, Ingram died following a battle with brain cancer. He was 66. Louisa Moritz  The “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” actress who was one of the numerous women who accused comedian Bill Cosby of sexual misconduct, died of natural causes on Jan. 30. Moritz was 72.Neal James  "The Banjo Man" on Animal Planet’s “Call of the Wildman,” died on Feb. 1 in Kentucky. He was 55.Julie AdamsThe actress known for playing the damsel in distress in the 1954 monster movie “Creature From the Black Lagoon,” died Feb. 3. She was 92. Kristoff St. John  The actor who played the character Neil Winters on the CBS daytime soap opera “The Young and the Restless” since 1991, died on Feb. 3. He was 52.Albert Finney The British Oscar-nominated actor who starred in “Tom Jones,” “Erin Brockovich” and the “Bourne” movies, died on Feb. 8. He was 82.Ron Miller  The former president and CEO of The Walt Disney Company and son-in-law of company founder Walt Disney, died on Feb. 9. He was age 85.Jan-Michael Vincent The actor, who starred in the TV series “Airwolf” and movies like “The Mechanic,” died on Feb. 10 at the age of 74 in North Carolina. According to CBS, the actor died of cardiac arrest. Pedro Morales  The WWE announced on Feb. 12 that the company's first-ever “Triple Crown” Champion died. The Puerto Rico native was 76.Bruce Ganz  The Swiss actor whose work ranged from “Wings of Desire” to the much-memed “Downfall,” died on Feb. 15. He was  77Karl Lagerfeld  The legendary fashion designer who served as longtime creative director of major brands such as Chanel and Fendi died on Feb. 19. He was 85Stanley Donen  The director of classic musical films like “On the Town” and “Singin’ in the Rain," died on Feb. 23. He was 94. Katherine Helmond  The character actress who rose to fame in the 1970s and ’80s with roles on the sitcoms “Soap” and “Who’s the Boss?” and appeared in such films as Terry Gilliam's "Brazil," died on Feb. 23 at age 89.Beverley Owen  The actress who played the original Marilyn Munster on the iconic 1960s sitcom “The Munsters,” died on Feb. 24. She was 81. Lisa Sheridan  The actress who appeared on a numerous top TV shows including “Halt and Catch Fire,” “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation” and “Invasion,” died on Feb. 25. She was 44.Mark Hollis  The lead singer for the 1980s rock band Talk Talk died on Feb. 26. He was 64.Jeraldine Saunders  The creator of the iconic ABC series “The Love Boat” died on Feb. 26. She was 96.André Previn  The German-American, Oscar-winning musician and composer who worked on the music for 1965’s Best Picture winner “My Fair Lady,” died on Feb. 28. He was 89. Andrew Berends  The documentary filmmaker who worked as a cameraman on the Oscar-winning doc "Free Solo" died on March 3. He was 46.Keith Flint  The lead singer of the pioneering 1990s British electronica band The Prodigy, was found dead on March 4. He was 49Luke Perry The "Beverly Hills 90210" and "Riverdale" actor died on March 5 after suffering a stroke. He was 52. King Kong Bundy  The wrestling legend whose real name was Christopher Alan Pallies died on March 5. He was 61.Sidney SheinbergThe longtime president and chief operating officer of MCA and Universal Studios who is also credited with discovering and nurturing the career of Stephen Spielberg, died on March 7. He was 84.Jed Allan  Soap opera veteran Jed Allan, best known for playing Don Craig on "Days of Our Lives," C.C. Capwell on "Santa Barbara" and Rush Sanders on "Beverly Hills, 90210," died on March 9. He was 84.Richard ErdmanKnown by millennials for his work on “Community” as Greendale’s smart-alecky Leonard Rodriguez died Saturday, March 13. He was 93.Jim RamanDr. James “Jim” Raman, an orthodontist who competed on Season 25 contestant of CBS’ “The Amazing Race,” died Monday, March 15. He was 42.Dick Dale The man responsible for the song credited with the creation of surf rock; his version of “Misirlou,” a single-string rattler that became an overnight hit after he performed it on “The Ed Sullivan Show” in 1963, died Sunday, March 14. He was 81.Michael Lynne The Hollywood producer who helped transform New Line Cinema into a powerhouse and served as an executive producer on Peter Jackson’s “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, died Sunday, March 21. He was 77.Agnes Varda The pioneering French film director who emerged in the New Wave movement of the 1960s and continued to direct influential work including 2017’s Oscar-nominated documentary “Faces Places,” died Thursday, March 28. She was 90.Shane Rimmer The Canadian actor known for his leading voice role as a pilot on the series “Thunderbirds” and appeared in multiple James Bond movies, died Friday, March 29. He was 89.Shelley LazarThe pioneer of ticketing VIP programs for everyone from the Rolling Stones and Paul McCartney to The Who, died Sunday, March 31. She was 69.Nipsey HussleThe Grammy-nominated rapper who appeared in Bone Thugs-N-Harmony’s semi-autobiographical film “I Tried," died Sunday, March 31. He was 33. Tania MalletThe actress who played Tilly Masterson in the 1964 James Bond movie “Goldfinger,” died late Sunday, March 31. She was 77.A look at the stars in movies, TV, music, sports and media we lost this year so farHere's a list of some of the notable celebrities and industry professionals in film, TV, music and sports who have passed away in 2019. 