“Last Week Tonight” return lays out path for Britain to reverse its departure from European UnionBritain is set to leave the European Union next month, and John Oliver has returned to television to try to prevent this Brexit “disaster.”“Things look dire here” the “Last Week Tonight” host said on Sunday’s Season 6 premiere. All the people his HBO comedy show highlighted seems to agree this exodus was not well thought out and could create serious problems for many Brits.“Normally for people to be that certain that something will be a disaster, they need to see Will Smith in blueface,” Oliver quipped, throwing up a photo of Smith’s blue Genie in the upcoming live-action “Aladdin.”Also Read: 'Aladdin': Here's the First Full Look at Will Smith's Genie (Video)That wasn’t Oliver’s only punchline borrowed from the world of movies and television.A little later during the segment, Oliver singled out Parliament member Boris Johnson, who he said is “what would it look like if Gordon Ramsay was tumble-dried on High.”That one was also accompanied by a perfectly timed picture. Yes, Oliver is a “MasterChef” of whipping up perfect analogies.Also Read: Relax, Everyone - Will Smith Says His 'Aladdin' Genie Is 'Gonna Be Blue'Watch Oliver’s third (per his show’s own count) takedown of Brexit via the video above.And then immediately find a way to watch U.K. series “Gogglebox.” You’ll a) get what that is and b) be hooked once you consume Oliver’s Sunday segment in full.Will Smith is a summer box office king, from $624 million made by "Hancock" to $273 million worldwide in "Bad Boys II" (both of which celebrate major anniversaries this month). Look back at the star's summer blockbusters. Worldwide lifetime grosses are ranked from lowest to highest.Made in America (1993) Will Smith had already earned a Grammy and cemented himself as a television star with his role on "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air." But it was his supporting role in this 1993 comedy about a sperm donation gone awry that established him as a film actor -- and a box office draw. The Whoopi Goldberg, Ted Danson comedy grossed $104 million worldwide. After Earth (2013) Twenty years later, Smith starred opposite his son Jaden in this post-apocalyptic science-fiction film about a general and his son who return to Earth long after it was abandoned and fight for their survival. The film was panned by critics but still eked out $243 million worldwide against a production budget of $128 million. Smith later called it "the most painful failure of my career."Also Read: New York Times Reassigns Reporter Who Had Sexual Relationship With Source Also Read: New York Times Reassigns Reporter Who Had Sexual Relationship With SourceWild Wild West (1999) Smith starred as a U.S. Army captain on the hunt for a conniving Confederate general in the 1999 Western-comedy "Wild Wild West." The high-budget film grossed $222 million worldwide. Bad Boys II (2003)Smith starred alongside Martin Lawrence as a narcotics detective investigating the flow of ecstasy into Miami. The film was released 15 years ago on July 18, 2003. Although the film was panned critically, it grossed $273 million worldwide. I, Robot (2004)In this loose adaptation of an Isaac Asimov short story, Smith starred as an outcast Chicago detective in a futuristic world where robots serve humanity. The film grossed $347 million worldwide. Men in Black II (2002) In the second installment of the "Men in Black" franchise, Smith returned as Agent J, tasked with fighting an evil alien played by Lara Flynn Boyle and retrieving Agent K (Jones) from blissful retirement. The film received mixed reviews but grossed $441 million worldwide. Also Read: Trump Reverses Course, Orders Flags Lowered to Half-Staff to Honor Slain JournalistsAlso Read: Trump Reverses Course, Orders Flags Lowered to Half-Staff to Honor Slain JournalistsMen in Black (1997)In the first installment of the "Men in Black" summer movie franchise, Smith starred opposite Tommy Lee Jones as an undercover alien-fighting government agent in New York City.  The film opened to acclaim and grossed $589 million worldwide. It won the Academy Award for Best Makeup and received additional nominations for Best Art Direction and Best Original Score. Men in Black III (2012)Fifteen years after the first film in the "Men in Black" franchise, the dynamic duo of Smith and Jones returned for a third installment. Smith travels back in time to prevent an attack on his partner's past self, and teams up with a younger version of Jones' character, played by Josh Brolin. The film was the most successful in the franchise, earning $624 million worldwide. Hancock (2008)This superhero comedy opened 10 years ago in theaters on July 2, 2008. The film starred Smith as a vigilante, alcoholic superhero in Los Angeles. Despite receiving negative reviews from critics, it earned $624 million worldwide. Suicide Squad (2016)Smith starred as the expert assassin Deadshot in this superhero movie from DC Comics, alongside an ensemble cast that included Jared Leto, Margot Robbie, and Viola Davis. The film received largely negative reviews from critics, but earned $746 million worldwide and became the first DC Extended Universe film to earn an Academy Award when it nabbed the Oscar for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. Independence Day (1996) This one's the king of all Will Smith summer blockbusters. He starred as a Marine pilot working to launch a counterattack against alien invaders on Independence Day. The film's use of CGI to wreak mass destruction is viewed as a turning point in the evolution of the Hollywood blockbuster. The film grossed $817 million worldwide and briefly became the highest-grossing film of all time behind "Jurassic Park." The film won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects.  On the anniversary month of “Hancock” and “Bad Boys II,” take a look back at star’s biggest summer smashesWill Smith is a summer box office king, from $624 million made by "Hancock" to $273 million worldwide in "Bad Boys II" (both of which celebrate major anniversaries this month). Look back at the star's summer blockbusters. Worldwide lifetime grosses are ranked from lowest to highest.