An uncooperative billionaire, a power-drunk tabloid, the president and the independent counsel’s investigation — a complexification that even Hollywood couldn’t make upGetty ImagesTo those expressing shock at Jeff Bezos’ extraordinary accusation of extortion by the National Enquirer’s owner American Media Inc., I can only say — get a clue.What’s shocking is that the Amazon billionaire had the guts to expose a well-worn practice of journalistic blackmail by a publication untethered by ethics.And what’s even more shocking is that AMI would have the chutzpah to put all this in writing and stamp it with the imprimatur of editor Dylan Howard on one document and AMI lawyer Jon Fine on another while the company is under a binding agreement with federal authorities to keep their noses clean as cooperating witnesses in the Michael Cohen case.Also Read: Read the Blackmail Email Jeff Bezos Says He Received From AMIThe fact that they did so anyway gives you some sense of how accustomed The National Enquirer is to this kind of “negotiation” — leveraging secrets to help allies, catch-and-killing salacious stories, paying for information and mixing business with journalism, a term I use in this case ironically.These practices have been well documented as AMI’s stock in trade in its past dealings with Donald Trump, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Harvey Weinstein to name a few:• AMI has admitted to federal prosecutors in New York that it participated in a “catch and kill” scheme with Trump’s alleged former mistress Karen McDougal, who (as Ronan Farrow detailed in the New Yorker last year) was paid to tell her story to the tabloid and instead given a spurious promotional deal to keep her from speaking out during the 2016 presidential election. (This is seen as a campaign finance violation, not a First Amendment issue.)• In Schwarzenegger’s case, as deeply reported by Anne Louise Bardach, the secret deal to kill evidence of the then-gubernatorial candidate’s past sexual exploits resulted in the “Terminator” star appearing on the cover of an AMI-owned health magazine. Arnold won the election, you may recall.• Harvey Weinstein exchanged emails with editor Howard in which the disgraced mogul asked for help to punish his enemies, a story of mutual back-scratching detailed in the New York Times. Weinstein struck business deals with AMI to develop television and movies as an inducement for the publication to be on his team.Also Read: Federal Prosecutors Open Investigation Into National Enquirer Owner Over Jeff Bezos' AccusationsAn uncooperative billionaire, a power-drunk tabloid, the president and the independent counsel’s investigation — this is a complexification that Hollywood couldn’t make up.Now the feds are investigating whether this violates AMI’s plea deal in the Cohen case — ratcheting up the pressure as another potential headache for the White House.Two big questions linger:• Why was AMI so intent on getting Bezos to assert that their reporting on his affair had no political agenda?• Why is AMI chief David Pecker still protecting Donald Trump even though he’s in political jeopardy himself over the apparent McDougal cover-up?Also Read: Jeff Bezos Would Still Be World's 4th Richest Man Even If Divorce Claims Half His Net WorthThis does not even get into the speculative mess involving The Washington Post’s persistent reporting on the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, which Bezos referenced in his Medium post on Thursday, and why AMI would want to help Saudi Arabia by embarrassing the Post’s owner.Let’s get clear on a few things. Trading on information is a timeworn tool in reporting. And publications have the absolute right under the First Amendment to publish true information that is of interest to the public. (The limits when it comes to individual privacy were recently challenged by the Peter Thiel-funded Hulk Hogan case against Gawker, which bankrupted that digital tabloid.)Here’s how this feels like extortion: I threaten to publish a damaging fact about you unless you tell me damaging facts about another person. Or, as that ethical line slips, other demands are made.Today Bezos’ refusal to play the game — and to go public about it — has triggered a federal investigation, all because we have a president who dances with the tabloid devil.As Silicon Valley executives and business heavyweights have gotten richer and more influential, there's been a recent trend of these same individuals stepping into the realm of news media, often without any media or publishing experience. Their deep pocketbooks have, in some cases, salvaged struggling legacy media titans and, in other cases, complicated their fortunes further. Their ownership has also raised editorial questions and concerns for how these news organizations should be expected to cover the actions of their new owners and their flagship tech companies.Jeff Bezos - The Washington PostAmong the most successful of the tech giant purchases, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos purchased The Washington Post in 2013 for $250 million in cash. Bezos has had a largely hands-on role with the Post, even offering a subscription of the newspaper to Amazon Prime users. And in 2015 the Post reported it nearly matched the readership of its rival The New York Times. Marc Benioff - Time MagazineSalesforce founder and co-CEO Marc Benioff, along with his wife Lynne Benioff, on Sept. 16 purchased Time Magazine from Meredith Corporation for $190 million in cash. Meredith earlier in the year acquired Time Inc. for $2.8 billion but shortly after announced plans to sell Time, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money magazines. Benioff is estimated to be worth $6.5 billion. Laurene Powell Jobs - The AtlanticIn July 2018, Steve Jobs' widow, Laurene Powell Jobs, took a controlling interest in The Atlantic to be spearheaded by Powell Jobs' the Emerson Collective. Powell Jobs killed plans to launch a new magazine set to be run by Leon Wieseltier after sexual misconduct accusations surfaced about the former editor of The New Republic. But in February of 2018, The Atlantic announced a hiring spree of 100 new jobs, half of them editorial hires. Chris Hughes - The New RepublicChris Hughes, a former Facebook executive, purchased The New Republic in 2012, announcing massive changes in the magazine to transform it into a "vertically integrated digital media company." The changes led to a swarm of resignations from top editors and complaints from its former owner that the magazine was now unrecognizable by abandoning it's "liberal tradition." The magazine even briefly suspended publication in the wake of all the upheaval. But in 2016, Hughes sold The New Republic to Win McCormack, saying he "f---ed up" and underestimated the challenges. Pierre Omidyar - The IntercepteBay founder Pierre Omidyar announced in 2013 that he was the backer behind Glenn Greenwald's site The Intercept. He is also the founder of the media organization First Look Media, which launched in 2013. But in 2014, just eight months after joining First Look Media, former Rolling Stone journalist Matt Taibbi left the company, sparking a wave of other departures from journalists through early 2015. Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong - The Los Angeles TimesDr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, a biotech billionaire and America's richest doctor, purchased the Los Angeles Times for $500 million in June 2018, twice what Jeff Bezos paid for The Washington Post. Soon-Shiong had previously invested in the Times' parent company Tronc, based out of Chicago, but made the paper's ownership local to Los Angeles for the first time since 2000. However, he then relocated the newspaper's headquarters to El Segundo. Salesforce CEO Benioff purchased Time Magazine from Meredith Corporation MondayAs Silicon Valley executives and business heavyweights have gotten richer and more influential, there's been a recent trend of these same individuals stepping into the realm of news media, often without any media or publishing experience. Their deep pocketbooks have, in some cases, salvaged struggling legacy media titans and, in other cases, complicated their fortunes further. Their ownership has also raised editorial questions and concerns for how these news organizations should be expected to cover the actions of their new owners and their flagship tech companies.