Chicago Police Department says Saturday that investigation “in the Empire case has in fact shifted” trajectoryGettyPolice think Jussie Smollet paid two bodybuilder brothers to orchestrate the attack in which he said he was beaten, soaked in bleach and had a rope placed around his neck, CNN reported Saturday.“We can confirm that the information received from the individuals questioned by police earlier in the Empire case has in fact shifted the trajectory of the investigation,” Chicago Police Department chief communications officer Anthony Guglielmi said in a statement. “We’ve reached out to the Empire cast member’s attorney to request a follow-up interview.”The two brothers identified by CBS as Olabinjo Osundairo and Abimbola Osundairo — though police did not release their names — were questioned this week as “potential suspects” then released without charges “due to new evidence” on Friday. CNN cited two law enforcement sources, who said the two men are now cooperating fully with law enforcement.Also Read: Jussie Smollett Denies Hiring Defense AttorneyIn a statement Saturday night, attorneys for Jussie Smollett strongly denied that the “Empire” star faked the attack he reported on Jan. 29, and said “anyone claiming otherwise is lying.”Smollett’s attorneys, Todd S. Pugh and Victor P. Henderson, said in their statement that the actor “has been further victimized” by these claims, and identified one of the men police arrested, then released without charges on Friday, as Smollett’s personal trainer.The trainer, who was unnamed in the statement, was preparing Smollett for a music video, the statement said. “It is impossible to believe that this person could have played a role in the crime against Jussie or would falsely claim Jussie’s complicity,” the statement continues.Here’s the full statement:As a victim of a hate crime who has cooperated with the police investigation, Jussie Smollett is angered and devastated by recent reports that the perpetrators are individuals he is familiar with. He has now been further victimized by claims attributed to these alleged perpetrators that Jussie played a role in his own attack. Nothing is further from the truth and anyone claiming otherwise is lying.One of these purported suspects was Jussie’s personal trainer who he hired to ready him physically for a music video. It is impossible to believe that this person could have played a role in the crime against Jussie or would falsely claim Jussie’s complicity.Jussie and his attorneys anticipate being further updated by the Chicago Police Department on the status of the investigation and will continue to cooperate. At the present time, Jussie and his attorneys have no inclination to respond to “unnamed” sources inside of the investigation, but will continue discussions through official channels.Also Read: Brian May, Roger Taylor Gave 'Bohemian Rhapsody' Cast Free Rein on Original Queen Costumes (Exclusive Video)CNN’s sources said records show that the two brothers, whom TheWrap confirmed with police are of Nigerian descent, purchased the rope at an Ace Hardware store in Chicago.The actor has pushed back on past speculation, shared on social media, that the attack was a hoax. In an interview with “Good Morning America” this week, he said people would be more likely to believe him if he had said his attackers were Muslim, Mexican or black.An attorney for the two men, Gloria Schmidt, did not respond to requests for comment.But the Chicago Tribune reported Schmidt has previously said that the two brothers have worked with Smollett on “Empire” and work out at the same gym as the actor. Smollett follows their bodybuilding page (@team_abel) on Instagram.Also Read: 'Alita: Battle Angel' Holds Narrow Box Office Lead Over 'Lego Movie 2'Smollett was hospitalized on Jan. 29, and reported to police that he was assaulted near his Chicago home by two men who shouted racist and homophobic slurs and referenced “MAGA.” According to a police statement, the actor reported that he was battered “about the face,” that “an unknown chemical substance” was poured on him, and that the attackers wrapped a rope around his neck. The substance turned out to be bleach.On Saturday morning, a rep for Smollett denied reports that the actor had hired defense attorney Michael D. Monico. Monico, who is currently on Michael Cohen’s defense team, had said Thursday on WGN’s “The Roy Conn Show” that Smollett was his client “at the moment.”Monico declined to comment when contacted by TheWrap Saturday about whether he repped Smollett.A Fox representative declined comment Saturday.There are still 22 months to go until the 2020 presidential election, but the competition to *maybe* replace Donald Trump in the White House is already stiff.The list already includes senators Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, former Obama cabinet member Julián Castro and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. And that's just people who have officially declared -- some high profile politicians and wannabes are teasing runs too. It's a lot to keep track of, but we're here to help. Here's TheWrap's list of everyone who has announced they are running for  president so far.Beto O'Rourke  - Democratic PartyThe former congressman from El Paso, Texas, announced he is running for president on March 14, saying: "This is a defining moment of truth for this country and for every single one of us," and that the challenges have never been greater. "They will either consume us, or they will afford us the greatest opportunity to unleash the genius of the United States of America," he added. O'Rourke has already made a name for himself as a record-breaking fundraiser, the subject of an HBO documentary and a favorite among Hollywood elite.Bernie SandersDemocratic PartyBernie Sanders, the runner-up in the 2016 contest for the Democratic nomination, has recorded a campaign video in which he says he is running for president in 2020, according to a report in Politico.Elizabeth Warren -Democratic PartyThe Massachusetts Senator formally announced her candidacy on Feb. 9 at a rally in her home state, and shortly after followed up with a tweet that read: "I believe in an America of opportunity. My daddy ended up as a janitor, but his little girl got the chance to be a public school teacher, a college professor, a United States Senator – and a candidate for President of the United States. #Warren2020."Tulsi Gabbard -Democratic PartyGabbard, a U.S. Representative for Hawaii's 2nd congressional district, endorsed Bernie Sanders in 2016, but in 2020 she's all-in on herself. She told CNN's Van Jones on Jan. 12 that she intends to run, and would make "a formal announcement within the next week." That announcement hasn't happened yet, but her Twitter account is bedecked with campaign branding.  Julián Castro -Democratic PartyThe former mayor of San Antonio -- and former Obama cabinet member -- entered the presidential race on Jan. 12. Kirsten Gillibrand -Democratic PartyThe Senator from New York announced her bid Tuesday, Jan. 15 on "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert."Kamala Harris -Democratic PartyThe California senator announced her bid for the presidency on Martin Luther King Jr. Day,  Jan. 21, while appearing on ABC’s "Good Morning America." As a possible indication of her chances, her recent CNN town hall was the network's highest rated single presidential candidate town hall ever.Pete Buttegieg -Democratic PartyThe 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Indiana, announced his presidential exploratory committee on Jan. 23. If he prevails in next year's primary, he'll be the first openly gay presidential nominee from a major political party.Cory Booker -Democratic PartyThe New Jersey senator and former mayor of Newark formally tossed his name into the presidential hat on Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month.Marianne Williamson -Democratic PartyThe "Healing the Soul of America" author and founder of Project Angel Food announced her candidacy during a political rally at the Saban Theater in Los Angeles on Jan. 28.Andrew Yang -Democratic PartyThe entrepreneur and son of immigrant parents from Taiwan became a contender a year ago, telling The New York Times that he will advocate for a universal basic income. John Delaney -- Democratic PartyThe U.S. Representative for Maryland's 6th district declared back in July 2017. He says he'll "end reckless trade wars and expand trade," "create a universal health care system" and "launch a national AI strategy."  Amy Klobuchar -Democratic PartyThe Minnesota Democrat, first elected to the U.S. Senate in 2006, announced her bid on Feb. 10, 2019, saying that she wanted to work for "everyone who wanted their work recognized."Honorable Mention:  Joe Biden  -Democratic Party The former Obama VP hasn't formally declared or even launched an exploratory committee, but he's been telling anyone who'll listen that he'd be the most qualified candidate for months. To win, he'll have to contend not only with his opponents, but also his own record.Honorable Mention:  Howard Schultz  -Independent  Like Biden, the former Starbucks CEO hasn't formally declared, but he's teased a possible run as an independent on the book tour for his autobiography. Given widespread fears that a third party candidate could help ensure a Trump victory, so far Schultz's hypothetical candidacy isn't going over well, according to a recent poll.Schultz is a co-founder of the venture capital firm Maveron, which is an investor in TheWrap.The crop of candidates already includes Beto O’Rourke, Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and moreThere are still 22 months to go until the 2020 presidential election, but the competition to *maybe* replace Donald Trump in the White House is already stiff.The list already includes senators Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, former Obama cabinet member Julián Castro and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. And that's just people who have officially declared -- some high profile politicians and wannabes are teasing runs too. It's a lot to keep track of, but we're here to help. Here's TheWrap's list of everyone who has announced they are running for  president so far.