“This is one of them stories I’m not proud of, but it’s the truth,” Smith said in a YouTube videoWill Smith wasn’t feeling the Wachowski’s pitch for “The Matrix,” so he dipped on the red and blue pill and opted to film “Wild Wild West” instead.“This is one of them stories I’m not proud of, but it’s the truth,” Smith said in a video on his YouTube channel Wednesday. “But it ain’t like it would have been that. Keanu [Reeves] was perfect. Laurence Fishburne was perfect. If I had done it then Morpheus wouldn’t have been black because they were looking at Val Kilmer.”It had been talked about in Hollywood for years, but earlier this week, Smith confirmed that he was pitched and, ultimately, turned down the role of Neo in “The Matrix.”Also Read: 'Aladdin': Here's the First Full Look at Will Smith's Genie (Video)“They came in and they made a pitch for ‘The Matrix’ and, as it turns out, they’re geniuses,” Smith said. “But there’s a fine line in a pitch meeting between genius and what I experienced in the meeting.”In the video, Smith explained how the meeting went south for him and the pitch for the filmmakers’ vision didn’t make all that much sense to him.Smith, at the time, was coming off the back-to-back successes of “Independence Day” ($817.4 million) and “Men in Black” ($589.4 million).“The Matrix,” which came out in 1999, went on to gross $463.5 million at the worldwide box office and win four Academy Awards, while “Wild Wild West” grossed $222.1 million worldwide and was critically panned. It did give us one of the great movie theme songs, however.Also Read: Will Smith and Martin Lawrence Announce 'Bad Boys for Life' Is HappeningBut it seems that Smith hasn’t always been the best judge of what projects to do… or not do. He describes in the video how Steven Spielberg called him to convince him to do “Men in Black,” when he was worried about being pigeonholed as “the alien movie guy.”“He said, ‘Do me a favor, don’t use your brain for this one, use my brain,'” Smith said of his conversation with Spielberg.Long before he became an awards season darling, Will Smith was a successful rapper. From his early days in Philadelphia, TheWrap looks back at the Fresh Prince's colorful career. Fresh Prince (1985)  A 17-year-old Will Smith met Jeff Townes by chance and the two ended up forming a hip-hop duo called DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince.  First Grammy (1989)  DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince received their first ever Grammy Award for "Parents Just Don't Understand" in 1989."The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" (1990-96)  After the IRS came after Will Smith for underpaid taxes, the rapper was nearly bankrupt. Luckily for him, NBC signed Smith and built "The Fresh Prince of Bel Air" around his rap persona. The sitcom became a '90s cult classic. "Where the Day Takes You" (1992)  Smith made his feature film acting debut in "Where the Day Takes You." "Bad Boys" (1995)  Smith starred in "Bad Boys" alongside Martin Lawrence. Although the film wasn't a critics' favorite, it did well with audiences and became a box office hit. "Independence Day" (1996)  Smith scored his first blockbuster playing a military pilot in the summer alien-invasion hit "Independence Day."Jada Pinkett Smith (1997-)In 1997, Smith married actress Jada Pinkett -- whom he met when she auditioned to play his girlfriend on "Fresh Prince." (The role went to Nia Long.) They had two kids together, Jaden (born 1998) and Willow (born 2000)."Men in Black" (1997)  Smith owned the July 4 weekend at the box office the following year with this sci-fi/comedy megahit, which grossed a whopping $250 million domestically. He also recorded his first solo single since his days with DJ Jazzy Jeff for the "Men in Black" soundtrack."Wild Wild West" (1999)  Smith's next attempt to own the July 4 weekend box office was a serious misfire, a big-budget action comedy about 19-century hired guns trying to protect post-Civil War America from a diabolical inventor."Ali" (2002)  Smith was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Muhammad Ali in "Ali," but lost to Denzel Washington in "Training Day.""Hitch" (2005)  The hardworking actor was recognized in the Guinness Book of World Records for attending three movie premieres in a 24-hour period while promoting the rom-com "Hitch.""The Pursuit of Happyness" (2006)  He earned his second Oscar nomination starring as a real-life salesman and entrepreneur who struggles with homelesseness. The film also marked the screen debut of his son Jaden.Walk of Fame (2007)  Smith gets a slab of concrete with his hand and foot imprint at Grauman's Chinese Theater in Hollywood. "Hancock" (2008)  This unusual take on a superhero film was a huge hit, grossing $228 million, but has yet to spawn a sequel. Smith played a down-and-out superhero who's teamed with a PR exec (Jason Bateman) to improve his image after some ill-advised heroics cause millions in damages."Men in Black 3" (2012)  Smith snapped a four-year sabbatical from the big-screen with the sequel to one of his biggest hits -- but audiences mostly yawned."After Earth" (2013)  Smith paired with his then 15-year-old son Jaden on this post-apocalyptic sci-fi adventure that was snubbed by critics and audiences alike."Concussion" (2015)  Smith lands another Golden Globe nomination for playing real-life Dr. Bennet Omalu, who took on the NFL after discovering football-related brain trauma known as CTE."Suicide Squad" (2016)  Smith plays Deadshot, an expert marksman turned criminal who is recruited to join a band of super-villains recruited to work for good in the DC Comics movie. Many fans balked, but the film still grossed a career-best $325 million domestically."Collateral Beauty" (2016)  Smith plays a successful New York advertising exec who experiences a personal tragedy involving his young daughter and retreats from life, only to have his colleagues come up with a plan to bring him back."Bright" (2017)In this futuristic sci-fi cop thriller from Netflix, Will Smith plays an L.A. cop partnered with the first orc on the police force (Joel Edgerton). The big-budget streaming movie generated some of Smith's worst reviews since "Suicide Squad."The Oscar-nominated actor wasn’t always destined for movie stardom, he started out his career as a rapperLong before he became an awards season darling, Will Smith was a successful rapper. From his early days in Philadelphia, TheWrap looks back at the Fresh Prince's colorful career. 