Rom-com previously titled “Flarsky” premieres at SXSW and opens in theaters May 3In the new romantic comedy “Long Shot,” Charlize Theron plays the current Secretary of State of the United States and a presidential hopeful, and Seth Rogen plays … well, let’s say a “Seth Rogen-type.”And yeah, we know what you’re thinking. Sounds like a long shot, hence the title. But the film was previously titled “Flarsky,” and Rogen plays Flarsky, which was a nickname given to him by Theron’s character when she would babysit him as a child. Now that she’s a high-powered politician and he a struggling, beltway journalist, she brings him in as a speech writer and slowly forms a relationship with him, despite her hectic schedule.“We surveyed some constituents to see how they would feel if Kate Middleton started dating Danny DeVito,” an aide says to Theron’s character in the first trailer for the film. “Pretty negative reaction.”Also Read: Seth Rogen and Michael Keaton in Talks to Star in Comedy 'King of the Jungle' at STXfilms“Long Shot” is directed by Jonathan Levine (“50/50,” “The Night Before”) and has a screenplay from Liz Hannah, who wrote Steven Spielberg’s “The Post,” and Dan Sterling, a former staff writer on “South Park” and “Girls.”Bob Odenkirk, Andy Serkis, O’Shea Jackson Jr., Randall Park, Alexander Skarsgard and a cameo from the group Boyz II Men all co-star in the film.“Long Shot” premieres at the SXSW Film Festival next month and then opens in theaters May 3 via Lionsgate. Watch the first trailer above via EllenTube.Now 10 years young,"Superbad" has solidified its standing among iconic comedy films. Littered with soon-to-be stars, it brought theatergoers pop culture gems, like, McLovin ("chicka chicka yeah!") and more. Take a look back at the movie's memorable characters and see what the actors who played them -- including Michael Cera and Jonah Hill -- are up to now.  Check out more trivia, goofs, and quotes on the film’s IMDb page.Jonah Hill (Seth)To reconcile the fact that he and best friend Evan are going off to different colleges, sex-crazed-but-lovable Seth tries (and fails) to make Jules (Emma Stone) his girlfriend. He really strikes out when he accidentally gives her a black eye.Jonah Hill nowHill has been nominated for two Oscars for his roles in 2011's "Moneyball" and 2013's "The Wolf of Wall Street." He most recently received a Golden Globe nomination for his role in "War Dogs."Michael Cera (Evan)Evan is Seth's nervous best friend who constantly tries to talk Seth out of his crazy schemes. Evan wants to get his secret crush on Becca out in the open -- but with three weeks left of high school, his time is running out!Michael Cera nowCera has had steady work as a comic actor, picking up uniquely awkward teenager roles in "Scott Pilgrim vs. the World" and "Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist." In 2016, he voiced Barry the hot dog in "Sausage Party" -- which counts as one of multiple professional reunions he's had over the years with "Superbad" castmates Seth Rogen and Jonah Hill. Emma Stone (Jules)Per Evan's words, Jules "got totally hot over last summer but obviously doesn't realize it." While her parents are away, she throws a party where very weird things happen. Also Read: Emma Stone Dethrones Jennifer Lawrence as World’s Highest-Paid ActressAlso Read: Emma Stone Dethrones Jennifer Lawrence as World’s Highest-Paid ActressEmma Stone nowHaving just dethroned Jennifer Lawrence as the world's highest paid actress, Stone has accumulated a score of acting awards since "Superbad" came out, most recently winning the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in "La La Land." Also Read: 7 Actresses Who’ve Demanded Equal Pay, From Emma Stone to Viola Davis (Photos)Also Read: 7 Actresses Who’ve Demanded Equal Pay, From Emma Stone to Viola Davis (Photos)Christopher Mintz-Plasse (Fogell/McLovin)When Seth and Evan's geeky friend Fogell changes his name to "McLovin," his life changes. McLovin befriends two cops who buy him beer. He loses his virginity to the girl of his dreams. And he officially becomes the coolest guy at the party. Also Read: 90 Best Movies of the ’90s, From ‘The Silence of the Lambs’ to ‘The Matrix’ (Photos)Also Read: 90 Best Movies of the ’90s, From ‘The Silence of the Lambs’ to ‘The Matrix’ (Photos)Christopher Mintz-Plasse nowMintz-Plasse starred in 2010's "Kick-Ass" and 2011 vampire flick "Fright Night." He also voiced Fishlegs in the "How to Train Your Dragon" film series. He will reprise this role for HTTYD 3 in 2019. We'll always love McLovin!Seth Rogen (Officer Michaels)One of two zany police officers who show McLovin a good time. But, according to his partner, this one can't shoot a gun.Seth Rogen nowRogen has a long list of starring comedies under his belt, including, "Pineapple Express," "The Interview" and "Neighbors." In 2019, he will voice Pumbaa in the live-action adaptation of "The Lion King." Also Read: Everything We Know About Marvel’s ‘The Defenders,’ Based on 14 PhotosAlso Read: Everything We Know About Marvel’s ‘The Defenders,’ Based on 14 PhotosBill Hader (Officer Slater)His competence as a police officer may be questionable, but he can do a sweet donut in his police cruiser. That has to count for something, right?Bill Hader nowA "Saturday Night Live" alum, Hader recently returned to the show in August 2017 to play a parody version of former White House Communications Director, Anthony "The Mooch" Scaramucci. His acting credits have stretched beyond comedy into drama and in 2015 he voiced the role of Fear in Disney-Pixar's "Inside Out."Martha MacIsaac (Becca)Becca is Evan's crush, and she likes him back. Although she "totally flirts with him" in math class, he doesn't pick up on it.Martha MacIsaac nowMacIsaac has picked up regular roles in "1600 Penn" and "The Pinkertons." She has also lent her voice to Patty of "Family Guy."Dave Franco (Greg)You may recognize this famous actor, but you may not remember his character: Greg the soccer player. Greg appears onscreen briefly to scold Evan for messing up their gym class soccer game.Dave Franco nowLike his older brother, James, Dave has appeared in several blockbuster films, including, "21 Jump Street," "Warm Bodies," and "Now You See Me." His next role will be as Greg Sestero in "The Disaster Artist."Clark Duke (“Party Teenager”)This unnamed partier answered the door when the cops came to break up Jules' party, then looked on amusedly as Fogell/McLovin pretended to get arrested.Clark Duke nowDuke went on to score much bigger gigs, including regular roles in "Greek" and "Two and a Half Men." Right now, he plays fledgling standup comic Ron Shack in the Showtime comedy series, "I'm Dying Up Here."Carla Gallo ("Period Blood Girl")When this party girl dances with Seth, she leaves her mark on him -- literally. If you've seen the movie, you know what we're talking about. Carla Gallo nowNo more period blood for this lady! Gallo has appeared in "Californication" and the movie "Neighbors" (with fellow "Superbad" alum, Seth Rogen). She also plays Daisy Wick in "Bones." Also Read: 23 Big ‘Game of Thrones’ Fan Theories for Season 7 and Beyond (Photos)Also Read: 23 Big ‘Game of Thrones’ Fan Theories for Season 7 and Beyond (Photos)Martin Starr (James Masselin)This guy is in the room when Evan serenades a group of dudes with his, um, unique singing voice. Then later, when a fight breaks out, he throws a mean punch.Martin Starr nowStarr is probably best known for his role as Bill Haverchuck in "Freaks and Geeks," but that was pre-"Superbad." Today, he has a recurring role on HBO's "Silicon Valley," along with an expanding list of film credits.Joe Lo Truglio (Francis the driver)Francis hits Seth with his car in the liquor store parking lot and makes it up to him by bringing him to a party (not Jules' party). Judging by the beat-down Francis gets from the party host, he clearly was not invited.Joe Lo Truglio nowAfter his role in "Superbad," Truglio went on to enjoy regular TV roles in "Backwash," "Free Agents," and "Wet Hot American Summer." He currently plays Charles Boyle in "Brooklyn Nine-Nine."Joe Nunez ("Liquor Store Clerk")This guy works at the liquor store where Fogell/McLovin attempts to use his fake ID. He clearly isn't amused when clumsy McLovin spills a six-pack of beer.Joe Nunez nowNunez has since made appearances in "Seven Pounds," "Bridesmaids," and "NCIS: Los Angeles." He is also a voice actor. Also Read: The Boy Who Inspired ‘Hook’ and 19 Other Little-Known Facts as Film Turns 25 (Photos)Also Read: The Boy Who Inspired ‘Hook’ and 19 Other Little-Known Facts as Film Turns 25 (Photos)Erica Vittina Phillips (Mindy the liquor store cashier)Mindy checks Fogell's ID right before the liquor store gets robbed. Poor Mindy. All she wanted was to do her job and study for her exam. Also Read: ‘Top Gun': 30 Things You Didn’t Know About the Tom Cruise Classic (Photos)Also Read: ‘Top Gun': 30 Things You Didn’t Know About the Tom Cruise Classic (Photos)Erica Vittina Phillips nowAfter her stint as the unfortunate liquor store cashier, Phillips played minor roles in hit shows like "The Office" and "Veep," and films, "This Is 40" and "Step Brothers." She currently plays Linda in the comedy web series, "Erica and Elray."  Check out more trivia, goofs, and quotes on the film’s IMDb page.Film that brought “I assume you all have guns and crack” turns 10Now 10 years young,"Superbad" has solidified its standing among iconic comedy films. Littered with soon-to-be stars, it brought theatergoers pop culture gems, like, McLovin ("chicka chicka yeah!") and more. Take a look back at the movie's memorable characters and see what the actors who played them -- including Michael Cera and Jonah Hill -- are up to now.  Check out more trivia, goofs, and quotes on the film’s IMDb page.