AdvertisementSupported byInside the ListBy Emily EakinJust a month into 2019 we’re already starting to see a theme: big numbers. There’s the elusive $5.7 billion wall, of course, and the 35-day government shutdown, the country’s longest. But lately the media’s identified some other big numbers, all having to do with older women. There’s Nancy Pelosi, who at 78 has proved the president’s most indomitable opponent, and her peers in the House: Maxine Waters, 80, the first woman to head the Financial Services Committee, and Donna Shalala, who turns 78 on Feb. 14, the oldest freshman in this year’s class. Glenn Close was 71 when she won a Golden Globe for best actress on Jan. 6, the same night that CBS News announced it was putting a 66-year-old woman, Susan Zirinsky, in charge of the company.When The Times took note of these women and their accomplishments in early January, the article, “I Am (an Older) Woman. Hear Me Roar,” became one of the paper’s most popular. As was “The Joy of Being a Woman in Her 70s,” an essay by the psychologist Mary Pipher, published a few days later. “Our country’s ideas about old women are so toxic that almost no one, no matter her age, will admit she is old,” Pipher wrote, arguing that our culture has routinely underestimated the demographic of which she, at 71, is now a member. Evidently she struck a nerve. Pipher’s new book, “Women Rowing North: Navigating Life’s Currents and Flourishing as We Age,” which enters its second week on the hardcover nonfiction list at No. 10, aims to serve as a corrective, both practical and inspiring, adorned with Pipher’s signature homespun maxims (“Grief isn’t just something to endure; it also is a reflection of our capacity to love”) and a generous smattering of nature imagery.“Contrary to the cultural scripts that say women are old and useless and in the way — diminished versions of their former selves — in reality older women are the happiest demographic in the country,” Pipher says. In her book, which has entered its fifth printing since it was published on Jan. 15, she cites research from the University of California, San Diego, along with census data from the United Kingdom, suggesting not only that people become happier as they age but that “the happiest people are women aged 65-79.”Pipher is best-known for her 1994 best seller, “Reviving Ophelia,” in which she deplored an epidemic of anxious and depressed young women taught to seek male approval at the expense of their own needs and desires. She regards that book and “Women Rowing North” as “bookends”: “Just to have a positive message that’s counter-script is really important.”Emily Eakin is an editor at The Book Review.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.OpinionOpinionAdvertisement