AdvertisementSupported byEdward Orloff represents a roster of buzzy writers, but he also builds bookshelves for some of New York’s biggest literary stars.By Julia FelsenthalA few years ago, the writer Ron Chernow, in need of shelving for his New York City apartment, searched online for “Brooklyn bookcases” and stumbled on a website belonging to a woodworker named Edward Orloff. Chernow emailed Orloff, who had a pretty good idea that his new client was the Ron Chernow, winner of many prestigious prizes and author of the Alexander Hamilton biography that inspired Lin-Manuel Miranda’s blockbuster musical. But Chernow had no idea that his new carpenter was actually first and foremost a book agent — initially at the Wylie Agency, now at McCormick Literary — whose current roster of writers includes up-and-coming talents like Wesley Yang, Mary H.K. Choi and Emily Witt.“I think Edward is probably the most literary person with carpentry experience since Jesus Christ,” boasts his friend, the writer Joshua Cohen, the only person Orloff counts as a client in both capacities; he installed 12 built-in bookcases along one wall of Cohen’s loft and also sold his last two novels. Orloff’s shelving customers comprise a sort of book-world who’s who: the poet and novelist Ben Lerner, the agent Nicole Aragi, the novelist Emma Straub. But his reputation as woodworker to New York’s literary circle is at least somewhat coincidental: Roughly half of the people who contact him, like Chernow, find him by chance on the internet. Then again, it stands to reason that book people will always need book storage.Orloff named his company Rift Cabinetry for a particular cut of wood that results in a neat, narrow grain, and also for what he describes as “the unusual divide between my two professional lives.” He spends most mornings at the McCormick offices in Manhattan’s flower district, (when the agency moved, Rift was tasked with fabricating new desks and bookcases for the space). Then, at around 1 p.m., he rides two subways to a desolate block in Ridgewood, Queens, to spend afternoons at his garage-turned-shop. Orloff compares this dichotomy to “taking the SATs over and over again”: first the verbal, then “3-D geometric reasoning” after lunch. “It scratches different itches,” he says.When I visit him in Queens, he has flipped the order of his day to take advantage of the morning light that streams in from the studio’s grimy, chicken-wired windows. He’s been up half the night finishing the install of a lofted book-lined office in one corner of his soaring space, and tidying downstairs, where his setup is pleasantly spare. A 10-foot-long carpenter’s bench, thick maple on blue metal trestles, dominates, surrounded by neat racks of planks, clamps and rulers. Near the door, a set of gymnastics rings dangles from a ceiling beam — “you need a strong back for this work,” says Orloff, who uses them for exercise — but he is more excited to show off other toys: a gigantic drum sander and a tiny robotic edge bander that he calls “the Cadillac of Festool machines,” both recent additions.Orloff traces his interest in carpentry back to high school in Providence, R.I., and a warehouse called Fort Thunder, where he went to see noise shows and left enchanted with the way the proprietors, a group of art school dropouts, had carved bedrooms out of the performance space. Later, he figured out how to build his own lofts, as an undergraduate at McGill University in Montreal and as an early 20-something living in Brooklyn. At 28, Orloff moved in with his friend, the late journalist Matt Power, who had bought an old brownstone and turned it into something like a dorm for his publishing friends. Everyone needed bookshelves, and Orloff, with help from YouTube, became adept at building them using a dinky table saw that he would wheel out into the backyard.In the early days, Orloff marketed himself as an Ikea alternative. He would often accept barter as payment for services rendered: a custom suit for a custom bed; as many paperbacks as he could carry from the New York Review of Books offices in return for shelving. Now, he says, Rift prices competitively, and takes on about 30 projects per year. He frequently works with architects and designers, and keeps a handful of part-time helpers on call — including another agent and an editor. Orloff sees his second career as good for his first. His shelves “don’t come out very easily,” he jokes. “We’re building something that for the life span of a house will encourage a love of books.”There’s a poetry, he acknowledges, to participating in both extremes of a book’s journey, from its nascence — “the first cup of coffee with the author, when the idea is embryonic” — to the question of how the physical object gets stored. “Edward has a drive to become involved in every aspect of books,” observes Cohen. “I wouldn’t be surprised if he buys a printing plant and a paper factory. Maybe he’ll get into distribution and buy trucks.” Orloff ponders that. “We do have a lot of excess wood,” he admits. “We could start pulping it. We probably should.”Advertisement