AdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceHalfway through Black History Month, and who knows how long into the latest news cycle involving politicians and their explosive pasts, might we recommend a couple of appropriate books? One offers historical context: Richard Gergel’s “Unexampled Courage” tells the true story of a black World War II veteran who was blinded at the hands of a Southern sheriff, and examines how his case spurred a white judge to champion the civil rights movement in its early days. The other offers Afrocentric escapism and fantasy: Marlon James’s best-selling new novel, “Black Leopard, Red Wolf,” draws on ancient myths and recent pop culture as it launches an epic tale about the fight for a lost kingdom. Either of those would be good reading for the rest of the month, or beyond.We also have a memoir about the hard work of cleaning other people’s houses, a look at the AIDS crisis in India, a rigorous history of the Chernobyl nuclear meltdown, and the posthumous memoir of a young mother chronicling her fight against cancer. If all of that sounds a little heavy — a person can take only so much gloom at once, after all, even a person who believes in facing the world head-on — then you might be inspired by Seth Fletcher’s account of the scientists who are working to photograph a black hole, or transported by Janet Malcolm’s characteristically crisp and wide-ranging cultural essays, or diverted by Karen Thompson Walker’s novel about an epidemic of sleep that descends on a California town. Read that one in bed, and we’ll see you next week.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksMIDNIGHT IN CHERNOBYL: The Untold Story of the World’s Greatest Nuclear Disaster, by Adam Higginbotham. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) To write his chilling new book, the journalist Adam Higginbotham spent a decade interviewing eyewitnesses and consulting declassified archives. He shows how an almost fanatical compulsion for secrecy among the Soviet Union’s governing elite was part of what made the reactor meltdown at Chernobyl not just cataclysmic but so likely in the first place. The book is filled with “rich reporting and scrupulous analysis,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “He reconstructs the disaster from the ground up, recounting the prelude to it as well as its aftermath. The result is superb, enthralling and necessarily terrifying.”NOBODY’S LOOKING AT YOU: Essays, by Janet Malcolm. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Janet Malcolm is well known for her slashing style and often withering criticism, but her new collection of reviews, profiles and essays is a reminder that she is also a great champion. She writes here about the fashion designer Eileen Fisher, the concert pianist Yuja Wang, Tolstoy in translation, a favorite bookstore. “What unites these pieces is a mood — heavy, autumnal, nostalgic,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “There is stirring, beautifully structured writing here, particularly in the title essay, a profile of Fisher, which combines many of the writer’s signal interests — our unconscious aggression and the way we methodically and unknowingly recreate the world of our childhood in our adult lives.”BLACK LEOPARD, RED WOLF, by Marlon James. (Riverhead, $30.) James, who calls his new epic fantasy an African “Game of Thrones,” conjures the literary equivalent of a Marvel Comics universe in this novel (the first of a projected trilogy) about the search for a missing boy who may be heir to a fabled kingdom. “Metamorphosis — of the sort made famous by both Ovid and Stan Lee — is one of the novel’s central themes,” Michiko Kakutani writes in her review. James’s book, she adds, is “filled with dizzying, magpie references to old movies and recent TV, ancient myths and classic comic books, and fused into something new and startling by his gifts for language and sheer inventiveness.”THE DREAMERS, by Karen Thompson Walker. (Random House, $27.) In Walker’s second novel, written with symphonic sweep and generous attention to parent-child relationships, panic spreads as swiftly as the sleeping sickness that’s paralyzing a small California town. “Walker is clearly as preoccupied by the natural forces and rhythms of new life as she is by the end of life,” S. Kirk Walsh writes in her review. “What happens when children are abandoned? What transpires when unknown external forces, like a sleep virus, provoke these separations? Is anyone really up to the task? Can anyone ever recover from the heartbreak of this kind of infinite love?”UNEXAMPLED COURAGE: The Blinding of Sgt. Isaac Woodard and the Awakening of President Harry S. Truman and Judge J. Waties Waring, by Richard Gergel. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Gergel’s riveting history examines a 1946 legal case that spurred the federal government to act in defense of racial equality at the dawn of the civil rights movement. David Blight — whose biography of Frederick Douglass was one of the Book Review’s 10 Best Books of 2018 — reviews Gergel’s book, calling it “a revealing window into both the hideous racial violence and humiliation of segregation in the period immediately after World War II, and the heroic origins of the legal crusade to destroy Jim Crow.”MAID: Hard Work, Low Pay and a Mother’s Will to Survive, by Stephanie Land. (Hachette, $27.) In her unstinting memoir — a portrait of working-class poverty in America — Land scrapes by on $9 an hour cleaning houses to support herself and her young daughter. “How well the underclass are forced to know their overseers. This state of affairs is so ordinary, so unremarkable, people hardly mention it,” Emily Cooke writes, reviewing Land’s narrative. “Her book has the needed quality of reversing the direction of the gaze. Some people who employ domestic labor will read her account. Will they see themselves in her descriptions of her clients? Will they offer their employees the meager respect Land fantasizes about? Land survived the hardship of her years as a maid, her body exhausted and her brain filled with bleak arithmetic, to offer her testimony. It’s worth listening to.”THE UNWINDING OF THE MIRACLE: A Memoir of Life, Death, and Everything That Comes After, by Julie Yip-Williams. (Random House, $27.) Written before her death last year from cancer at the age of 42, Yip-Williams’s book is a remarkable woman’s moving exhortation to the living. “This memoir is so many things — a triumphant tale of a blind immigrant, a remarkable philosophical treatise and a call to arms to pay attention to the limited time we have on this earth,” Lori Gottlieb writes in her review. “But at its core, it’s an exquisitely moving portrait of the daily stuff of life: family secrets and family ties, marriage and its limitlessness and limitations, wild and unbounded parental love and, ultimately, the graceful recognition of what we can’t — and can — control.”AN INDEFINITE SENTENCE: A Personal History of Outlawed Love and Sex, by Siddharth Dube. (Atria, $28.) Dube, an activist for H.I.V. patients in India, here recounts growing up gay in a society that would not accept him. Confronted with the AIDS epidemic, Dube recognized its link to an “essential longing for sex and love, and with being outlawed, shamed and persecuted.” Reviewing it, Sonia Faleiro writes that “although this is a personal memoir, it is also a memoir of work. Work helped Dube find himself. And work allowed him to live a life he could be proud of. It’s in combining his personal story with the ravages of AIDS he witnessed that Dube advances the genre of queer memoirs in India. … Dube gives his readers the substantial gift of hope.”EINSTEIN’S SHADOW: A Black Hole, a Band of Astronomers, and the Quest to See the Unseeable, by Seth Fletcher. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $26.99.) What does a black hole look like? The scientists Fletcher profiles aim to produce the first real picture. According to our reviewer, Adam Becker, their quest is “explained expertly and clearly by Fletcher, an editor at Scientific American, who carries the reader along on a journey of scientific triumphs and bureaucratic nightmares, of abstruse physics and interpersonal politics, all the while conveying the visceral joy of research. … He has a knack for deft, accurate explanations that are quick to read and easy to understand, with memorably vivid language. His excellent prose and a powerful story fuel this shining quasar of a book.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement