AdvertisementSupported byInside the ListBy Tina JordanOn Feb. 14, 2018, at 3:13 p.m. — 54 minutes after the shooting started at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. — Dave Cullen got a text from a producer at “Anderson Cooper 360,” asking him to appear on the show that night. “They only contact me when it’s going to be bad,” says Cullen, the author of “Columbine.” He wasn’t sure he wanted to do it. At that point, he’d been covering mass killings for so long he had begun suffering from a secondary form of traumatic stress, sometimes “sobbing all day, mostly in bed, then slumped in a chair.”Almost immediately, though, this tragedy seemed different from the earlier ones. For one thing, one of the students, David Hogg, quickly became more famous than his attacker by issuing a plea for gun control on CNN. “Took less than 24 hours,” Cullen says. “Can you imagine Charles Manson being overshadowed by one of his victims?” Cullen hopped on a plane to Florida. “I had been so depressed and angry about this political stalemate we had been trapped in, running a political rat maze with no exit, and these kids just punched a hole in it and shouted ‘Follow us!’” Cullen recalls. “I knew I had to tell their story. I had to write this book” — “Parkland,” which debuts this week at No. 14.“Gun reform seemed hopeless,” Cullen says, “until David Hogg called us out, and what a painful slap that was. The truth hurts, and letting our children die, that’s despicable. We hated ourselves for that, so the torch was simmering, waiting for someone to grab it and run with it. We weren’t expecting children, and we couldn’t have imagined a whole team of them, but when they rose to the challenge, we responded immediately.”As he followed Hogg and the other students — including Emma González and Cameron Kasky — on their gun-control campaign, something happened to Cullen: He began to heal. “I had no idea how much sadness was still in me until I saw the ‘after’ picture from 10 months with them — the happy Dave from pre-Columbine,” he says. “I wasn’t just writing about them, I was writing about the impact I was witnessing in their wake. The kids at every stop, an army of young activists, who had never imagined themselves as activists until that Valentine’s Day, never had a clue how, never would have believed themselves capable. They are now believers. And they’re doing it. I think this book is about the birth of something extraordinary: the birth of a movement, but also the rebirth of hope.”Follow Tina Jordan on Twitter: @TinaJordanNYTFollow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement