AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA spinoff of “The Fosters” debuts on Freeform. And a scripted drama series begins on the History channel. GOOD TROUBLE 8 p.m. on Freeform. By the time “The Fosters” wrapped up last summer, fans were already itching to keep the drama going with this spinoff series. After graduating, sisters Callie (Maia Mitchell) and Mariana (Cierra Ramirez) move into a shabby communal home in downtown Los Angeles where dinners bring the residents together and rats roam free. They take up new jobs — Callie works for a conservative judge (Roger Bart) and Mariana joins a male-dominated start-up — that leave them wanting more. True to coming-of-age fare, their new reality proves that “adulting” comes with plenty of battles. “Good Trouble” echoes the social consciousness of “The Fosters,” the creator Joanna Johnson told Variety, but it is on the lighter side and draws out the story through a more complex, nonlinear narrative.LINDSAY LOHAN’S BEACH CLUB 8 p.m. on MTV. Lindsay Lohan has been out of the limelight in recent years. This new series highlights one of the projects that has kept her busy: opening Lohan Beach House, a sprawling beach club in Mykonos, Greece. In “Vanderpump Rules” format, the show follows a very serious Lohan as she manages the club’s eight employees at the sun-drenched tourist destination.ELLEN’S GAME OF GAMES 8 p.m. on NBC. The second season of this tournament show, hosted by Ellen DeGeneres, starts with two back-to-back episodes. Contestants compete for a chance to win $100,000 in a series of games based on DeGeneres’s daytime talk show.FINDING YOUR ROOTS 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). In this Season 5 opener, the host Henry Louis Gates Jr. helps the “Brooklyn Nine-Nine” actor Andy Samberg and the “Game of Thrones” author George R. R. Martin unravel mysteries about their ancestry.PROJECT BLUE BOOK 10 p.m. on History. This new scripted series reimagines clandestine investigations into unidentified flying objects led by the United States Armed Forces from 1947 to 1969. The cases, part of a program called Project Blue Book, were led by the Ohio State astrophysicist J. Allen Hynek (Aidan Gillen of “Game of Thrones”) and a World War II pilot, Capt. Michael Quinn (Michael Malarkey of “The Vampire Diaries”). The show begins with the “Gorman Dogfight,” a 27-minute air encounter between a military pilot and a white orb above Fargo, N.D.PAN’S LABYRINTH (2006) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Netflix, Vudu and YouTube. This dark allegorical fairy tale by Guillermo del Toro bears much resemblance to his 2017 fantasy drama, “The Shape of Water.” Set after the Spanish Civil War, it centers on a girl (Ivana Baquero) who finds an escape from the tyranny of her military officer stepfather by entering a labyrinth where a faun (Doug Jones) reveals her destiny. What distinguishes the movie from other fairy tales, A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, “is that it balances its own magical thinking with the knowledge that not everyone lives happily ever after.”Advertisement