AdvertisementSupported byBy Brooks BarnesLOS ANGELES — Something seismic was happening during the Academy Awards ceremony on Sunday night. The Hollywood establishment, excoriated for its longtime exclusion of women and minorities, recognized African-American production design and costume virtuosos for the first time. Asian-American filmmakers were honored. A movie about a gay rock star collected four trophies.“I want to thank the academy for recognizing a film centered around an indigenous woman,” Alfonso Cuarón said as he accepted the award for best director for “Roma,” about a domestic worker in Mexico City.But then came “Green Book.”In a choice that prompted immediate blowback — from, among others, the director Spike Lee, who threw up his hands in frustration and started to walk out of the theater — the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave the best-picture Oscar to a segregation-era buddy film. While admired by some as a feel-good depiction of people uniting against the odds, the movie was criticized by others as a simplistic take on race relations, both woefully retrograde and borderline bigoted.It was the ultimate Lucy-pulling-away-the-football moment for those who had hoped the film academy was going to reveal itself as a definitively progressive organization. That the 2017 selection of “Moonlight” as best picture wasn’t a fluke. That the efforts to diversify its membership — albeit still 69 percent male and 84 percent white — had been transformational.Adding to the anger over “Green Book” were the other choices available. Ryan Coogler’s “Black Panther” was a cultural and commercial phenomenon, shattering a myth about the overseas viability of movies with Afrocentric story lines. “Roma,” a nuanced examination of class that was made by an almost entirely Latino cast and crew, had been showered with honors at the pre-Oscars award shows.And Mr. Lee’s “BlacKkKlansman,” about an African-American police officer who infiltrates the Ku Klux Klan with the help of a Jewish surrogate, was a chance for the academy to recognize one of cinema’s singular, groundbreaking filmmakers — one who had been repeatedly overlooked in the past.“A lot of people may have allowed their expectations of the academy to become too great,” said Todd Boyd, a cinema and media studies professor at the University of Southern California who focuses on popular culture and race. “We can see some signs of changes, but there has not been a full transformation.”“Green Book,” based on a true story, focuses on a working-class Italian-American man (Viggo Mortensen, nominated for best actor) who gets a job as a chauffeur and bodyguard for a gay African-American pianist (Mahershala Ali, who won the Oscar for best supporting actor). As they drive through the South in 1962, the mismatched men begin to realize they have common ground. At one point, they bond over fried chicken.“The whole story is about love,” Peter Farrelly, the film’s director and one of its writers, said in his best-picture acceptance speech. “It’s about loving each other despite our differences and finding the truth about who we are. We’re the same people.”That message resonated with many people, including black cinema standouts like the writer-director John Singleton (“Boyz in the Hood”) and Octavia Spencer, an Oscar winner in 2012 for “The Help,” who served as a “Green Book” executive producer. Luminaries like Harry Belafonte and Quincy Jones also endorsed Mr. Farrelly’s film in recent months. Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a revered figure in the civil rights movement, introduced a montage of the movie on Sunday.“Green Book” received an A-plus grade from ticket buyers in CinemaScore exit polls and has become a modest hit, collecting $144 million worldwide for Universal Pictures and Participant Media.Frustration over the celebration of “Green Book” was intensified by the racial makeup of the people who made it. The filmmaking team was predominantly white — director, writers, lead producers.“Green Book is an inspirational tale of how we can end racism if everyone, regardless of background, just works together,” Jason O. Gilbert, a television writer and an author, said on Twitter. “So please welcome the stage the producers of Green Book: 1000 white guys who were all born in 1961.”Despite pre-Oscars backing for “Green Book,” vocal supporters were hard to find after it won. A half-dozen academy members declined to be interviewed on Monday morning about the film’s victory, including several who supported “Green Book.” One explained that he did not want to attract “the Twitter mob.” Several lamented that the Oscars were no longer about movies but rather about advocacy.Mr. Farrelly did not respond to a request for comment.Others in Hollywood spent the day scratching their heads and wondering if “Green Book” had won simply because it was a studio-backed film. “Roma” was released by Netflix — largely skipping theaters — and some voters seemed unready to crown the streaming service.It was also possible that “Green Book” benefited from the academy’s complicated “preferential” voting system for best picture, in which nominees are ranked 1 through 8, and the second- and third-place positions can carry as much weight as first place.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Jessica Cheung, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Larissa AndersonWesley Morris joins us to talk about “Green Book,” the latest in a series of Oscar winners that focus on a white character’s moral journey in an interracial friendship.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Three decades ago, the Academy Awards gave its highest honor to a movie about a white passenger learning to love her black chauffeur. On Sunday night, it gave the same award to a film about a white chauffeur learning to love his black passenger. Times culture critic Wesley Morris on Hollywood’s obsession with fantasies of racial reconciliation. It’s Tuesday, February 26.archived recordingGood evening, and welcome to the one millionth Academy Awards. We are not your hosts, but we’re going to stand here a little too long so that the people who get USA Today tomorrow will think that we hosted.michael barbaroSo last night, I was watching the Academy Awards. I was struck that it was John Lewis, this congressman, but most importantly, this legendary civil rights leader, who introduced “Green Book” at the awards ceremony.archived recording (john lewis)I can bear witness that the portrait of that time and place in our history is very real.michael barbaroAnd basically endorsed it. And I haven’t seen the movie, but his stamp of approval made me think that I should have.archived recording (john lewis)Our nation bears the scars of that time, as do I. [APPLAUSE]michael barbaroAnd then after “Green Book” won best picture, later on in the evening, I’d read that Spike Lee, the black director, he walked out of the room in protest.wesley morrisYes.michael barbaroAnd that the award generated a fair amount of controversy. So my question to you is, what exactly happened here?wesley morrisO.K., well, where do you even want to start? How far back in history do you want to go?michael barbaroWherever you think we should in order to really understand this.wesley morrisOh, man. Let’s go back to 1990, which is the Oscar year for the films that came out in 1989. And you have a best-picture slate that is full of movies that we still are with in some ways.archived recordingIf you build it, he will come.wesley morris“Field of Dreams” and “Dead Poets Society.”archived recordingWe are food for worms, lads. Because believe or not, each and every one of us in this room is one day going to stop breathing.wesley morris“Born on the Fourth of July.”archived recordingPeople say, if you don’t love America, then get the hell out.wesley morrisAnd “My Left Foot,” which we don’t really talk about enough, but it made Daniel Day-Lewis a star, and gave him the first of his zillion Oscars. And —archived recording[CAR ENGINE STARTING]wesley morris“Driving Miss Daisy.”archived recordingMy mother’s a little high-strung. The fact is, you’d be working for me. She can say anything she likes, but she can’t fire you.michael barbaroAnd remind me what that film was about.wesley morris“Driving Miss Daisy“?michael barbaroYeah.wesley morris “Driving Miss Daisy.” “Driving Miss Daisy” is the story of an old Jewish lady played by Jessica Tandy, whose son insists that she’s too old to drive her car. So he hires a black guy to drive the car for her.archived recordingNow, Miss Daisy, you need a chauffeur. Lord knows I need a job. So why don’t we just leave it like that?wesley morrisHis name is Hoke. He’s played by Morgan Freeman. And over the course of, I guess it’s maybe 30 years, this professional relationship deepens into a kind of friendship.archived recording (daisy)You’re my best friend.archived recording (hoke)No, go on now, Miss Daisy. You don’t have to —archived recording (daisy)No, really. You are.wesley morrisIt is a fantasy set during Jim Crow in the South about an impossible friendship that is based in work. And that makes us feel good, because you see this prejudiced woman in a racist climate become friends with this black man who just wants to drive her around. Basically, what happened that year was that Kim Basinger at some point comes out.archived recording (kim basinger)Hello, the world. We’ve got five great films here. And they’re great for one reason, because they tell the truth. But there is one film missing from this list that deserves to be on it, because ironically, it might tell the biggest truth of all.wesley morrisAnd she says, oh, wait a minute, something’s not in this category. And it’s the movie that tells the biggest truth of all.archived recording (kim basinger)And that’s “Do the Right Thing.”michael barbaroSo Kim Basinger comes in.wesley morrisKim Basinger.michael barbaroFamous white actress, and says, something’s amiss here. “Do the Right Thing” should be nominated.wesley morrisNever met Spike Lee. She is dating Prince at this point. Spike Lee — one of Spike Lee’s favorite people on the whole planet. But I don’t think that really matters. Anyway, she comes out and says this, and it’s a controversial thing. The room is sort of unsure what to do about this.michael barbaroAnd what’s the basic plot?wesley morrisThe basic plot is —archived recordingFight the power! Fight the power!wesley morrisIt is a parable set on the hottest day of the year in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn.archived recording (speaker 1)Who told you to walk on my side of my block? Who told you to be in my neighborhood?archived recording (speaker 2)I own this brownstone.archived recording (speaker 3)Who told you to buy a brownstone on my block, in my neighborhood, on my side of the street?archived recording (speaker 4)I can’t even hear myself think!wesley morrisAnd all kinds of racial tensions bring people to converge on this pizzeria. And you just have all this tension, and things boil over. There is a melee. Someone dies at the hands of the police. Then you have a riot.archived recording (speaker 1)Doctor.archived recording (speaker 2)Come on. What?archived recording (speaker 1)Always do the right thing.wesley morrisIt’s by Spike Lee. It’s his best movie.archived recording (speaker 1)That’s it?archived recording (speaker 2)That’s it.archived recording (speaker 1)I got it, I’m gone.wesley morrisIt’s one of the greatest movies ever made in the history of American cinema.michael barbaroSo in 1990, which film ultimately wins best picture?wesley morrisMichael, I told you what they were. What do you think won?archived recordingAnd the Oscar goes to “Driving Miss Daisy“!michael barbaroAnd what does it mean that “Driving Miss Daisy” won best picture in that year?wesley morrisThat it’s the continuation of a long trend of a kind of racial reconciliation fantasy.michael barbaroAnd what does that phrase mean?wesley morrisWell, it’s this idea that you’ve got a white character who typically tends to be racist or bigoted or prejudiced or whatever. And that person is going on this journey, courtesy of this relationship to a black person who has no journey to go on, is just there to morally be a center that this white person can return to, or, like, make his or her way toward.michael barbaroAnd just to be clear, break down this word “fantasy” for me. What is the fantasy?wesley morrisThe fantasy is that prolonged exposure to a black person is going to cure you of your racism. The black person just has to sit there and take your money. And you’re basically buying a friend, who will then absolve you of every horrible thought, every racist deed you’ve ever had or done.michael barbaroAnd what does that look like? How does that fantasy, this dynamic you’re describing — how does that show up in pop culture over the next few years and maybe even decades?wesley morrisWell, let’s just skip to the ‘80s.archived recording (speaker 1)What do you give the kid who has everything?archived recording (speaker 2)Daddy said anything I wanted. Anything in the store.wesley morrisSo there’s this one movie that I remember very clearly. It’s called “The Toy.”archived recording (speaker 1)For Eric Bates, it was the only toy in his father’s store —archived recording (speaker 2)I know what I want.archived recording (speaker 1)— that wasn’t for sale.archived recording (speaker 3)What you’re offering me is not a job, sir. It’s an insult, and I’m insulted.wesley morrisRichard Pryor, who, at this point, if people were taking a poll and saying, name the greatest living comedian, Richard Pryor would probably be at the top of almost everybody’s list. He’s recruited in this movie by Jackie Gleason to be the best friend of his estranged son. Pays him money.archived recording (speaker 1)$2,000?archived recording (speaker 2)With that kind of money, if Eric blows his nose, you wipe it.wesley morrisAnd the idea is that he’s going to befriend this kid.archived recordingIf you want a friend, you don’t buy a friend. You earn a friend.wesley morrisWho is initially pretty obnoxious. Meanwhile, the guy who — Jackie Gleason’s character is a bigot and a racist, and at some point has to be taught by Richard Pryor’s character that that’s not cool, and being a father is pretty O.K., too.michael barbaroWhy would Richard Pryor take this kind of a role?wesley morrisYour guess is as good as mine. But it’s like, why does anybody take any of these roles? Because there’s nothing else for them to do if they want to be in movies. You don’t have a lot of black people writing and directing movies. Most of the people writing these shows and directing and writing these movies are white people whose ideas about black people come from popular culture that existed before the popular culture they’re making. It’s usually not coming from actual relationships with actual black people. And if it is, it’s compromised by the idea that there’s only so much that they can imagine a black person doing in the first place. So this idea of behind-the-camera representation becomes important during this period, too. But I mean, for our purposes, it’s white people imagining black people, for white people. And then in the 2000s, you have a very easy, classic example of this problem.archived recordingI got a job today writing for the Jackson Journal.wesley morrisIn a movie like “The Help,” another best picture nominee.archived recording (speaker 1)Aibileen, you spilled something.archived recording (speaker 2)Forgive me, Lord, but I’m going to have to kill that woman, Aibileen.wesley morrisAnd it is essentially the story of some maids in a southern town.archived recordingYou said to write about what disturbs me, particularly if it bothers no one else. I’d like to write something from the point of view of the help. I want to interview you.wesley morrisWho wind up being written about as an exposé.archived recording (speaker 1)I’m gonna help with your stories.archived recording (speaker 2)We all are.wesley morrisOf the poor treatment they receive at the hands of their white mistresses.archived recordingIt’s quite scandalous. Sounds like Jackson, if you ask me.wesley morrisAnd the book becomes a hit. But it then winds up imperiling the lives and the safety and comfort of the women themselves.archived recordingYou tell Aibileen, do I have plans for her. You’re a godless woman.michael barbaroAnd what is the fantasy in “The Help“?wesley morrisWell, the fantasy is that you can make the lives better for oppressed women during the Jim Crow era, in which, you know, black people were treated all kinds of horrible — death, dehumanization, any kind of inequity you can subject a person to black people faced under Jim Crow. And by writing this book, which is what the white main character of this movie does, it’s supposed to make these lives better. And the fantasy is that this woman can come in, interview these black women, they will give their stories to this white woman, who will write a book, sell a bunch of copies. And these black women are going to be left to fend for themselves. But the fantasy that this woman is allowed to have about her do-gooderness is that she actually is making a difference and is going to create a means by which these women can be treated better by the white women they work for.michael barbaroWhen in fact, in some cases, she makes it worse.wesley morrisShe makes it worse. The last shot of that movie is really kind of tragic.archived recordingMae Mobley was my last baby. In just 10 minutes, the only life I knew was done.wesley morrisIt’s just Viola Davis walking down a road — with no job, by the way.archived recordingGod says we need to love our enemies. It’s hard to do.wesley morrisIt kind of creates this sense that Emma Stone is kind of off the hook, and Viola Davis is on a hook. And the fantasy of the reconciliation is that the conscience-clearing and the act of expressing empathy or sympathy or something is enough.michael barbaroI guess I want to push you on this. Doesn’t inherently spending time with people who are different than we are make us more empathetic? And why would that be anything other than a good thing?wesley morrisThat’s a deep question. The immediate answer, though, is that it’s on the terms of white people. There’s nothing mutual about any of these movies, any of this work. It’s not mutual at all. You aren’t going into the houses and lives of these black characters. And they’re presented as so good as to have no agency. Now “The Help” sort of pushes back against that a little bit. But to be fair, I mean, if the movie works, and it works as a movie, it’s very easy to overlook a lot of these problems. A well-made movie is effective as a spell-casting mechanism, right? You know, you watch a movie like “The Help,” and you’re like, but she wrote the book. She got the truth out there about how bad it is for these maids. And what more can she do? What more do you want her to do? She did her job. I just feel like that is a great way to feel, but I’d love to see a black woman’s version of “The Help.” But I don’t think you’d ever see that, because black people don’t want to tell that story. And the other thing about these movies that’s really worth noting, especially the ones that get near the Oscars, these racial reconciliation fantasies are almost always set in the past. They’re all set during the Jim Crow-era, in the South for the most part, and involve something about the relationship between the white person and the black person being unequal, whether it’s the black person’s I.Q. in “The Green Mile” or the social standing of the black person in “The Help.” So these are movies that would say they believe in equality, but there’s nothing equal about the races in them. There’s an inherent imbalance. And the fantasy, of course, is just acknowledging that black people exist and giving them some lines and casting a good actor to play them is a kind of argument for an equality. But it’s not, if you look at the way they function within the system that the movie created for itself.michael barbaroSo lay out for me specifically how you see this racial reconciliation fantasy playing out in “Green Book.” And I haven’t seen the movie, so keep that in mind.wesley morrisYou’re in for a treat, my friend. So here we are in 2019, and just imagine all this progress in 30 years. So this is the year where the movies have just never been blacker, and the black movies you get have never been this good, right, as a class of movies. You’ve got a movie like “Blindspotting,” “Sorry to Bother You,” “Black Panther,” “BlacKkKlansman.” You’ve got “If Beale Street Could Talk.” You’ve got “Widows.” this is coming a year after “Get Out” was a hit. And that’s coming a year after “Moonlight” won best picture.michael barbaroAll having major black protagonists.wesley morrisMajor black protagonists? They were written and directed by black people. It’s a huge deal. It’s meaningful. So here we are, 2018. This movie called “Green Book” starts to make its way around the country. And it should be the story of a man named Don Shirley, a black musician who is no longer with us, and the trip he decides to take to the Deep South in 1962. 1962. Like, Jim Crow Deep South, 1962. And he needs somebody to be able to get him from place to place.archived recording (speaker 1)Some guy called over here, a doctor. He’s looking for a driver. You interested?archived recording (speaker 2)I am not a medical doctor. I’m a musician. I’m about to embark on a concert tour in the Deep South. What other experience do you have?archived recording (speaker 3)Public relations.wesley morrisIt’s got to be somebody who’s tough, has a little bit of muscle, isn’t afraid of anything, but is also obviously white.archived recordingDo you foresee any issues in working for a black man? You in the Deep South? There’s going to be problems.wesley morrisSo he decides that the man for the job is a guy named Tony Vallelonga, a kind of bouncer from the Bronx. Now what I just said to you is the opposite of what the movie actually is. The movie is actually the story of Tony Vallelonga, and how he gets a call one day from somebody for a job. And he goes and meets Don Shirley, who he sees and is like, I’m driving for you? No way, I’m not doing that. And Don Shirley, of course, is like, but I need you, you’re my man. You seem to be the most qualified person for the job. Please do it. Drive me. He consents. Thus begins a friendship almost completely from the vantage of Tony Vallelonga.michael barbaroThe white guy.wesley morrisYes. Tony is the protagonist of this movie. We spend the first 25 minutes of it with him. And I saw the poster for this movie, and the poster is Viggo Mortensen in the front seat, Mahershala Ali, who plays Don Shirley, in the back seat. The first thing I thought was, oh my god, you gotta be kidding me.michael barbaroWhy?wesley morrisIt’s “Driving Miss Daisy” all over again! This is 1989 all over again. I can’t believe this.archived recordingKentucky Fried Chicken. In Kentucky. When’s that ever going to happen?wesley morrisI mean, it’s a comedy all in the service of making you feel good about the idea that racist Tony Vallelonga can become increasingly less racist by driving Don around a place that the movie wants you to understand is more racist than Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)I got the bucket so you could have some.archived recording (speaker 2)I’ve never had fried chicken in my life.archived recording (speaker 1)Who are you bullshitting? You people love the fried chicken, the grits and the collard greens. I love it too. Negro cooks used to make it all the time when I was in the army.archived recording (speaker 2)You have a very narrow assessment of me, Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)Yeah, right? I’m good.archived recording (speaker 2)No, no, you’re not good. You’re bad. I’m saying just because other Negroes enjoy certain types of music, it doesn’t mean I have to, nor do we all eat the same kind of food.wesley morrisTony is like a nice, friendly, lovable cartoon racist. But I mean, he’s nothing compared to these Jim Crow people. You know, these Confederate racists who use the N-word every 15 minutes and have Confederate flags everywhere and will beat Don up for coughing. We’ve never seen Tony do that. This entire movie is — oh my god, it’s a literal vehicle to get Tony from racism to reconciliation in under two hours.archived recording (speaker 1)Eat it. Come on. Take it, take it, take it. I gotta drive. 10 and 2 on the wheel. Come on, take it. Take it. Come on, come on. Here you go. Huh?archived recording (speaker 2)I can’t do this, Tony.archived recording (speaker 1)Eat the [expletive] thing. Jesus.michael barbaroSo this year’s Academy Awards happens on Sunday night, 30 years after “Driving Miss Daisy” wins best picture, and Spike Lee’s “Do the Right Thing” is not even nominated for best picture. What’s going through your head as the evening unfolds? I assume you’re watching it.wesley morrisYeah, I was. I was watching it. I mean, I have to watch it.archived recordingHere are the nominees for best picture.wesley morrisI mean, obviously, there’s a juiciness, right? There’s a kind of moral juiciness. You’ve got “Green Book” nominated for best picture and four other Oscars. And then you’ve got Spike Lee back at the Oscars in a competitive way for the first time since that Oscar loss in 1990 for “Do the Right Thing.” He was nominated one other time, but this is, like — this is the big boys’ table if you’re Spike Lee. So here we are. We’re having a little bit of PTSD, because a movie that’s just like “Driving Miss Daisy” is up against a movie in “BlacKkKlansman” —archived recordingThere’s never been a black cop in this city. We think you might be the man to open things up around here.wesley morrisThat features a black guy in the Colorado Springs Police Department, who basically, via telephone, infiltrates the K.K.K., pretending to be a white guy hoping to join.archived recording (speaker 1)Hello?archived recording (speaker 2)This is Ron Stallworth calling. Who am I speaking with?archived recording (speaker 1)This is David Duke.archived recording (speaker 2)Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, that David Duke?archived recording (speaker 1)Last time I checked. What can I do you for?wesley morrisAnd it obviously is trying to depict a more accurate racial scene than “Green Book” is trying to depict.archived recording (speaker 1)We must unite and organize to fight racism.archived recording (speaker 2)Are you down for the liberation of black people?archived recording (speaker 3)Power to the people.archived recording (speaker 2)All power to all the people.archived recordingAll power to all the people.archived recording (speaker 3)That’s right, sister.michael barbaroThis is very much, in a sense, a rematch of 1989, 1990.wesley morrisIt is a spiritual rematch involving one of the actual participants, but in different categories, right? And so the stakes are this. If “Green Book” wins, and you’ve got a movie like “BlacKkKlansman” nominated for best picture, what on earth is that telling you about where the academy is as a body and what its priorities are in terms of whose point of view matters to the most people?archived recordingAnd the Oscar goes to “Green Book.”wesley morrisAnd so I feel like I really understand why that movie won. It really does believe that Don Shirley’s insisting that Tony Vallelonga be in his life makes Tony a better person. That feels good, right? It feels good to see a person make a positive change from a bad place to an arguably good one. And I don’t know, there’s just — it’s very hard to resist that. I mean, for the people who do like it, it is a really good movie. It’s entertaining, and it’s funny. And it’s made by Peter Farrelly of the Farrelly Brothers, the people who brought you “Something about Mary” and “Shallow Hal” and “Me, Myself and Irene.” These guys know how to make a comedy. That’s what they do. And that’s what this movie is, 100 percent — it’s a comedy. And I don’t think most people watch movies that morally. And there are people who — you bring this up, and I’m like, but who is Don Shirley to this movie? People get upset. Listen, it’s about interracial friendship. It’s about healing the divide between the races. How dare you? This is a good movie. And it’s saying something positive.michael barbaroRight.wesley morrisWhy do you want negativity in the world? And I never have a good answer for that, because those people — those people aren’t wrong. But I also feel like this movie is not the solution to anything. It is the perpetuation of the same problems our entertainment’s been giving us since it started.michael barbaroSo Wesley, what is significant about this best picture award? What does it mean that the academy chose a film like this — one with, to use your words, this racial reconciliation fantasy as so central to its plot — as the best film of the year?wesley morrisIt’s a fantasy. And it does nothing to address or acknowledge the infrastructural problems that keep the races divided. If anything, the enthusiasm for a movie like “Green Book” only makes — it kind of makes the problem worse, in some ways. Because it makes it seem like the movies don’t care about the way racism actually works. They just want to make racism go away. I mean, let me just put it this way. I’ll put it in the most human terms I possibly can — personal terms. I have white friends. I see very little art about the kind of friendships I have with white people. I have friendships with white people that don’t involve making them feel better about their racism, to the extent that they have it. We talk about that stuff. Like, why did you say that? Why did you do that? These are not cataclysmic conversations. These relationships are about a mutual curiosity. These people want to know what my life is like as a black person. They want to know what my family is like, what my family history is like. There is a give and take. There is a real questioning of the larger systemic problems in this country that affect the relationship that I’m even able to have with these white people. And that is not the thing that you see discussed in these movies. I think that the movies have an obligation to entertain us, but I think they also have an obligation to be fair to certain aspects of social reality. Because people take lessons from this stuff. All I’m saying is, “Green Book” is another version of a movie we’ve been watching for 100 years.michael barbaroWesley, I’m really struck that I think it was about a month ago, you wrote an essay for The Times in which you kind of laid out everything we’re talking about now. You reminded us that 30 years ago, “Driving Miss Daisy” won, and that this idea of the racial reconciliation fantasy remains prominent in Hollywood and was at the center of “Green Book.” And you seemed to kind of presciently suggest that that movie might win and that it might carry the day because of the power of this concept you were describing. And that is exactly what happened.wesley morrisI mean, listen, there’s a part of me that’s like, I never am right about the Oscar winners. But I just felt this one. I felt this one. I felt like there was a way in which the thing that happened on Sunday does mirror whatever is happening in this country right now, where a segment of the population is feeling really paranoid and a little bit endangered and is worried about feeling displaced or unseated by change. And to the extent that the people who make our movies are a microcosm of the nation writ large, the academy is undergoing some changes, and it is becoming less white and less male. And I think they’re going to, like, cling even more tightly to things that feel safe and familiar. And this is a movie that feels safe, and it feels comforting in some way. Because it lets them believe that on the one hand, they can say they’re giving their top honor to a movie about an interracial friendship and about racial reconciliation.michael barbaroRight.wesley morrisBut to me, what that says about them is also a fantasy, right? It’s also a fantasy that says, this symbol of excellence, and this symbol of our tastes and our belief as a body, or at least the people who voted for it, really does sort of reflect what we should be as a nation. And that’s not what we are. So the aspiration that we can just make this racism go away by running out and finding the nearest black person to pay us to be better people is absurd. And I think that’s what happened on Sunday.michael barbaroWesley, thank you very much.wesley morrisOh, my pleasure.michael barbaroWesley talked about “Green Book,” race and the Academy Awards with his co-host, Jenna Wortham, in the latest episode of their podcast, “Still Processing.”Cries of foul, however, were plentiful.Dr. Boyd, the U.S.C. professor, said that, in part, he saw the selection of “Green Book” as pushback by older, more conservative voters.“There are inherently people in the academy who think the organization’s diversity efforts are going too far,” he said by phone on Monday.Justin Chang, a film critic for The Los Angeles Times, blasted “Green Book” in an article that was posted online minutes after the film won.“‘Green Book’ is an embarrassment; the film industry’s unquestioning embrace of it is another,” Mr. Chang wrote. He said the film “reduces the long, barbaric and ongoing history of American racism to a problem, a formula, a dramatic equation that can be balanced and solved.”There were also comparisons to “Crash,” which won best picture in 2006, beating “Brokeback Mountain,” and drew similar outrage for its depiction of race relations. “Green Book,” for instance, has the lowest score on Metacritic, the review-aggregation site, of any best-picture winner since “Crash.”The contrasting emotions during Sunday’s ceremony could be seen in Samuel L. Jackson’s presentation of the two awards for screenwriting.Standing onstage with Brie Larson, Mr. Jackson opened the red envelope containing the winning names for original screenplay and made a slight grimace, initially seeming reluctant to even announce that Mr. Farrelly, Nick Vallelonga and Brian Curie had won for “Green Book.” (Mr. Vallelonga, whose father was the model for the character portrayed by Mr. Mortensen, came under attack in January for making an anti-Muslim comment on Twitter in 2015. He apologized.)After the three men accepted the prize, Mr. Jackson and Ms. Larson stepped back to the microphone to open the adapted screenplay envelope. A euphoric Mr. Jackson shouted Mr. Lee’s name for “BlacKkKlansman,” and the director jumped into his buddy’s arms when he got to the stage.It was Mr. Lee’s first Oscar win. He shared the prize with his fellow writers Kevin Willmott, who is black, and Charlie Wachtel and David Rabinowitz, who are both white.Speaking to reporters backstage after the ceremony, Mr. Lee at first declined to comment on his film’s losing best picture to “Green Book.” Then he compared “Green Book” to “Driving Miss Daisy,” the racial reconciliation fantasy that won for best picture in 1990, when Mr. Lee’s groundbreaking “Do the Right Thing” was not even nominated.“I’m snakebit,” he said. “I mean, every time somebody is driving somebody, I lose.”Mr. Lee also compared the best-picture win by “Green Book” to his beloved New York Knicks’ losing a close game.“I thought I was courtside at the Garden, and the ref made a bad call,” he said.Mr. Lee added, however, that the academy was changing, noting the organization’s aggressive efforts to diversify its membership after the #OscarsSoWhite outcries of 2015 and 2016. At least “BlacKkKlansman” was nominated this time, he said, so it wasn’t a complete example of history’s repeating itself.“They opened up the academy to make the academy look more like America,” Mr. Lee said. “So that’s why three black women, if I’m counting correctly, won Oscars.” He was correct: Regina King won the supporting-actress award for “If Beale Street Could Talk,” while two “Black Panther” department heads, Hannah Beachler (production design) and Ruth E. Carter (costumes), became the first African-Americans to receive Oscars in their categories.Mr. Willmott, who got his start in Hollywood two decades ago, summed up both the euphoria and disappointment.“Tonight is a huge step forward, I think, in many different ways,” he said. “It’s still frustrating at times.”Advertisement