AdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceThere’s a saying in journalism (and in other endeavors, with minor variations) that twice is a coincidence, three times is a trend. If that’s true, we have a bunch of coincidences for you this week. There are two Supreme Court biographies: Evan Thomas’s “First,” about Sandra Day O’Connor, and Joan Biskupic’s “The Chief,” about John Roberts. There are two spy books: the novel “American Spy” and the political history “Spies of No Country.” Two memoirs, by Carolyn Forché and Mitchell S. Jackson. And weirdly — which is to say, coincidentally — two books with the word “betrayal” in the subtitle. The lesson here may only be that eclecticism likes company. And that sounds like a trend.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksTwitter: @GregoryCowlesLOT: Stories, by Bryan Washington. (Riverhead, $25.) The subtle, dynamic and flexible stories in this debut collection play out across Houston’s sprawling and multiethnic neighborhoods. About half of the stories are about a single family, and in particular about the coming-of-age of a teenager, the son of a black mother and a Latino father. “The promise Washington displays is real and large,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. He is “an alert and often comic observer of the world.”WHAT YOU HAVE HEARD IS TRUE: A Memoir of Witness and Resistance, by Carolyn Forché. (Penguin Press, $28.) In 1977, someone Carolyn Forché had never met arrived at the poet’s door in California and convinced her to travel to El Salvador to document the perilous political turmoil there. Forché recounts the ensuing experience, and its lasting effect on her life and work, in this new memoir. “Once Forché’s story gathers momentum, it’s hard to let the narrative go,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “The shape of her memoir hews closely to what she herself saw and heard — and how, out of the horror, she began to discern what she needed to do.”FIRST: Sandra Day O’Connor, by Evan Thomas. (Random House, $32.) O’Connor, the first woman on the Supreme Court, was as practical, fearless and independent-minded off the bench as she was on it; in this intimate and admiring portrait, Thomas, a veteran journalist and biographer, expertly navigates both her pathbreaking career and fulfilling domestic life. Jeffrey Toobin, reviewing it, calls the book “fascinating and revelatory,” and concludes that “Thomas’s book is not just a biography of a remarkable woman, but an elegy for a worldview that, in law as well as politics, has disappeared from the nation’s main stages.”THE CHIEF: The Life and Turbulent Times of Chief Justice John Roberts, by Joan Biskupic. (Basic, $32.) This assiduously reported, briskly written biography offers new behind-the-scenes details on John Roberts’s life and career, but shows just how hard it is to figure out who the chief justice really is or what he stands for; Biskupic, an analyst at CNN, ends up calling her own subject an “enigma.” But as our reviewer, Adam Cohen, notes, she also “suggests that he is pulled by two often-conflicting instincts. One is ideological: a desire to move the court rightward on race, religion and other issues. The other is institutional: an interest in the court being respected and seen as nonpolitical.”THE PARADE, by Dave Eggers. (Knopf, $25.95.) In Eggers’s tense parable of a novel, his eighth, two men known by numbers instead of names are contracted by a road-building company to lay down a highway in a war-torn foreign country in time for a government parade. “Without the usual biographical hints tucked into conversations and internal thoughts, Eggers differentiates between Four and Nine solely through their reactions to the post-civil-war devastation around them,” Idra Novey writes in her review. “How this setup reduces the two men to their willingness — or refusal — to see others is striking.”THE MASTERMIND: Drugs. Empire. Murder. Betrayal., by Evan Ratliff. (Random House, $28.) Ratliff’s page-turning investigation explores how Paul Le Roux transformed himself from a nerdy kid with a talent for encryption into the boss of an international drug cartel. Alan Feuer’s review calls it a “fever-heated” effort to understand that transformation, and says that the author “clearly deserves this year’s Award for Dogged Journalism” whether or not his book contains larger lessons: “Ratliff’s tale is unique, so strange and so compelling, it is almost better left to float alone.”AMERICAN SPY, by Lauren Wilkinson. (Random House, $27.) This gutsy debut thriller — about a black female F.B.I. agent haunted by an old case — delivers plenty of action while addressing thought-provoking issues of identity, belonging and moral compromise. “Running informants was about cultivating their trust,” the heroine says. “I found it worked best to lie frequently.” Mick Herron, reviewing the novel, applauds it for “embracing ambitions and concerns that don’t always figure highly in the spy genre,” while remaining “first and foremost a thriller.”ZORA AND LANGSTON: A Story of Friendship and Betrayal, by Yuval Taylor. (Norton, $27.95.) This engaging, overdue study of the famous yet underdiscussed friendship and collaboration between Zora Neale Hurston and Langston Hughes traces one of the most consequential relationships in American literature. “‘Zora and Langston’ refocuses our attention on the positive aspects of their relationship, while doing its best to explain — through historical records and firsthand research — what really brought their friendship to an end,” Zinzi Clemmons writes in her review. “Chief among the book’s strengths is that it does not shy away from pointing out … contradictions in the relationship at its heart.”SURVIVAL MATH: Notes on an All-American Family, by Mitchell S. Jackson. (Scribner, $26.) Jackson tells the story of his family in Portland, Ore., and of the men in particular — offering social context for their decisions, good and bad. He relates the often sordid tales of addiction and neglect with radical love and honesty. Our reviewer, Darnell L. Moore, calls it “a model of autobiographical writing that demonstrates how reportage and critical attention to the complexities of black life — its intersectional textures — can be the source material for an inimitable memoir.”SPIES OF NO COUNTRY: Secret Lives at the Birth of Israel, by Matti Friedman. (Algonquin, $26.95.) In the early days of the Israeli state, a secret unit of Jewish spies posed as Arabs, living the tension and drama of Israel’s relationship with its neighbors. Spy histories “often fall short in tapping the depths of their lives — or, more aptly, their humanity,” Neal Bascomb writes in his review, but “Spies of No Country” “stands out as a wondrous exception.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement