AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnMartin Ashwood-Smith alters his M.O.By Deb AmlenFRIDAY PUZZLE — Even though making a themeless crossword puzzle can, in some circumstances, be easier than constructing a themed one, there are still uphill battles to fight to put a good themeless together.In Martin Ashwood-Smith’s case, the battle was to stack long entries on top of each other while keeping the crossings clean. It takes a lot of practice to be able to stretch stacked entries across a grid and still have the Downs make sense or be in the language.In this puzzle, Mr. Ashwood-Smith gave himself some slack by limiting himself to a central staggered stack of 13s, with some shorter stacks in the northeast and the southwest. But with this grid design, he still has to find four interesting long Downs to connect the sectors of his puzzle. Even without something with the visual derring-do of a quadruple stack, it’s still a balancing act between including really sparkling entries and not including too much glue, like Roman numerals (XII), although it’s clued gently as a number on a grandfather clock. And, admittedly, that’s a personal peeve of mine. Some solvers might not mind it.So has he succeeded? I believe so. There is some lively fill in his puzzle, including debuts like GLISSANDI, TORE APART, BARRY GIBB, DOUBTFIRE and JARED LETO, a familiar name to solvers who appears under his full name for the first time. Other entries, like ILL AT EASE, DIXIELAND JAZZ, DOUBLE DEALERS, DRAG DOWN and MALADROIT, hold the grid together and make the solve fun. Is it easy? No, of course not. But that’s Friday for you. It’s a proverbial tug of war between the constructor, editors and solver. Except in this game of tug of war, instead of pulling one side over, the object is to meet in the middle and shake hands.15A: “Laser alternative” for DOT MATRIX is hinting at printers, not an alternative to laser guns.23A: Hi, kids! In the 19th century, your ancestors might have played a card game — which was the predecessor to Pinochle — called bezique. A MELD in bezique is a “combination of cards with scoring value, generally three or more cards in sequence in one suit or all of the same rank.” 48A: A selfie stick is a ROD with a clip on which you can place your smartphone, so you can take selfies or videos of yourself without needing freakishly long arms.53A: I love clever wordplay, and I will say that the clue “Barre hops?” for JETÉS is definitely clever. It is, however, physically impossible, if you take the concept literally. A barre is just that; a bar attached to a wall or stand that dancers hold onto when warming up for class or doing strengthening exercises. A JETÉ is a leap that is done in the center of the class, and would tear the barre off the wall should a dancer attempt to try it while holding on. My apologies for bringing down the room.32D: TIL about Hawaii’s Ka LAE, which includes the southernmost point of the United States.I’ve always liked stacked-style crosswords. Most of my New York Times puzzles have featured stacked 15s. However, today’s puzzle features three 13-letter entries (DIXIELAND JAZZ, MOBILE ALABAMA, DOUBLE DEALERS) stair-stacked in the center of the grid.My starting point was DIXIELAND JAZZ, a nifty seed entry with its high-value Scrabble letters. Luckily, BARRY GIBB and JARED LETO worked nicely going down through the 13s.Fave clues: 53A’s JETÉS “Barre hops?”, and 53D’s JAW “Something that maybe dropped in shock.”Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement