AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer ReeseLITTLE FAITH By Nickolas ButlerThe protagonist of Butler’s quiet novel counts himself a man pretty much satisfied with his life. In his mid-60s, Lyle Hovde still lives in the small Wisconsin town where he grew up; strolling through the cemetery, gazing at the graves of people he once knew, he feels “a deep and abiding unity and evenness, as if the volume in his life were suddenly dimmed down.” Humble and contemplative, he enjoys his work tending an apple orchard, the company of a few old friends and a happy marriage. His daughter, Shiloh, a single mother, has come home to raise her son, Isaac, and Lyle dotes on the 5-year-old: “Oh he loved the boy; and that was all there was to it.” His is a heart waiting to be broken and broken it will be.Although he still attends the local Lutheran church for the ritual and community, Lyle stopped believing in God years ago when his infant son died. A fissure opens between Lyle and Shiloh as she becomes increasingly devout, quoting Scripture, periodically dropping to her knees in prayer and frequenting sketchy start-up churches in strip malls. The fissure widens when she becomes romantically involved with Steven, a handsome and charismatic young pastor who preaches to a raucous congregation in an old movie theater, prowling the aisles “like a panther.” Steven convinces Shiloh that little Isaac is a healer, capable of curing diseases with a laying on of hands — and he convinces Lyle that his daughter and grandson have fallen into the clutches of a dangerous confidence man. When Lyle won’t embrace Steven’s fiery brand of Christianity, Shiloh cuts off his contact with Isaac, precipitating a series of increasingly dire crises.With its focus on spirituality and reverence for the joys of everyday life, “Little Faith” calls to mind Marilynne Robinson’s “Gilead,” although Butler can’t match Robinson’s stately prose and evocations of inner grace.318 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins. $26.99.WHITE ELEPHANT By Julie LangsdorfLangsdorf announces what her novel will be about — marriage and real estate — in its jaunty opening lines: “Allison Miller lay in bed in the dim light of early morning thinking about sex. It was the hammering on the new house being built next door that was responsible, the rhythmic pound, pound, pounding ….” The pounding is the work of Nick Cox, a real estate developer who has already built himself a tastelessly huge house on Tunlaw Place, a block of tastefully small bungalows, and is in the process of building another. The Miller house is sandwiched between the monoliths. Allison’s husband, Ted, is lying in bed next to her but he is too irate about the new construction to think about sex, let alone have it. Allison can’t remember the last time she and Ted made love. Although she loathes Nick Cox’s gaudy construction projects, Allison’s thoughts about the man have taken a carnal turn.[ This title was one of our most anticipated books in March. See the full list. ]The Millers aren’t the only couple on Tunlaw Place with marital and real estate problems. Suzanne and Grant move into a house that is too small for their growing family. Suzanne, serious and driven, thinks of Grant as her Eliza Doolittle and has tried to transform him into the husband she wants, persuading him to stop blow-drying his hair and dress “more Brooks Brothers and less J.C. Penney.” Alas, the makeover hasn’t fully taken. Grant won’t stop smoking weed or texting his unambitious high school friends. Moreover, he doesn’t really understand why everyone is so down on Nick Cox and his gigantic houses. Grant secretly digs the man’s McMansion: “Everything was padded. Everything was shiny and enormous. Grant wanted to leap onto the sectional leather sofa in the media room like a kid jumping into a pile of leaves.”And, really, who wouldn’t? While skewering its vacuity and vulgarity, Langsdorf captures the sensuous allure of confident, over-the-top American consumerism. Nick Cox is uncomplicated and virile, his houses are appalling but comfortable. Like Tom Perrotta’s “Little Children” and Maria Semple’s “Where’d You Go, Bernadette,” “White Elephant” exposes middle-class domestic malaise with a light comedic touch.313 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins. $26.99.[ Want to read more novels about squabbling families? ]A WEEKEND IN NEW YORK By Benjamin MarkovitsThe Essingers are one of those big, talky families that seem to generate their own weather system whenever the far-flung members get together. In the opening chapters, various Essingers — aging parents in from Texas, four grown siblings, sundry grandchildren — have begun to gather in New York City to watch the younger Essinger son, Paul, compete in the U.S. Open. As Markovits’s characters navigate a long weekend of sometimes tetchy togetherness, he moves among their inner worlds so deftly that you barely notice that you’ve made the transition from mother to daughter or father to son. The family itself is the central character, a single, complicated organism.What happens over the course of the weekend in New York? Bickering, babka muffins, house hunting, confiding, gin and tonics, a jog in Central Park, judgment. The patriarch, Bill, visits his ailing sister in Yonkers, near the home where they grew up, and remembers why he has loved living in Austin: “As an escape from all that. From the narrowness of his childhood. From the two sets of plates and the Friday night dinners, from the Hebrew you could speak but not really understand.” Meanwhile his wife, Liesel, an author, endures a demeaning interview with an unprofessional reporter who has misunderstood her book and sticks her with the taxi fare. Jean, the youngest Essinger, confesses that she has begun an affair with a married colleague back in London, while her older sister, Susie, announces that she is pregnant with her third child. Alone with her thoughts and overwhelmed by her family, Susie reflects wistfully on her decision to have another baby: “Kids give you a few years of protection, from everything else, including your own family, your own childhood, but unless you keep making new ones the protection runs out.” There’s not a lot of high drama in the novel; the characters’ cool and sometimes startling insights into their own behavior are pleasure enough.346 pp. Faber & Faber. $24.Jennifer Reese is a book critic who has reviewed for The Washington Post, NPR, Slate and Entertainment Weekly.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement