AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnEllis Hay makes his New York Times Crossword debut.By Deb AmlenMONDAY PUZZLE — Sometimes, what might seem simple on the surface can really have extra layers built in. That’s not to say that the puzzle is harder than usual; it’s not. This Monday puzzle, a debut by Ellis Hay, is easy to solve, but there are a couple of “extras” in this puzzle that add to the entertainment. In the business world, they call that “value added.”Mr. Hay’s clues were easy enough to figure out, except for 1A, where I had SLICE before LAYER for “Birthday cake part.”Mr. Hay presents us with a set of theme entries that all start with a homophone of the letter B, although the top theme entry at 20A, B MINOR MASS, uses the letter itself.So the theme entries are:20A: Bach masterpiece, informallyB MINOR MASS32A: Betty White co-star on "The Golden Girls" BEA ARTHUR40A: Benadryl might treat themBEE STINGS52A: Bit of advice to the insecure BE YOURSELFPretty straightforward, right? Where is that “value added” I was talking about? It so happens that there are a couple of Easter eggs in this puzzle, both hidden in plain sight. In case you didn’t notice:Easter egg 1All the clues begin with the letter 'B'Easter egg 2Will Shortz's editorial byline reads "Bill Shortz"I made this puzzle 11 months ago, so I need to rack my mind a bit to remember why I made specific choices, but I believe the impetus was BEA ARTHUR, which sparked the homophonic idea. Knowing that the puzzle needed a little something extra, I also decided to start all the clues with B.I locked in BEA ARTHUR — and therefore a second nine letter slot — early, after a Wikipedia search revealed that she is the only “Bea” well known enough for a crossword entry. I knew that for “B,” I wanted B MINOR MASS. This meant eliminating other theme entry possibilities like BEEHIVE STATE or BESTILL MY HEART but, as a music major, I couldn’t waste the opportunity to include such a masterpiece. For a while, I had BE OUR GUEST as the final theme answer, but the surrounding fill felt a bit too weak.When filling the grid, I decided not to use the letter B outside of its four theme appearances and tried to find entries which could be clued smoothly. I ran into trouble in the northeast, with the weird combination of FLC in AFL-CIO, and northwest, where I had SI SI, which the editing team replaced (thankfully) with YETI.I’m glad to see that many of my better clues were kept, while all my weaker “Baccalaureate receiver” type clues were replaced. As a Tigers fan, the one clue I miss is the one referencing LOU Whitaker, but I suppose he may not be well known nationally. I’m excited to be making my New York Times Crossword debut today, and I hope the puzzle makes for an enjoyable solve.If you have signed up to go to the 42nd American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, which runs March 22 — 24 at the Stamford Marriott Hotel, and you are concerned about not knowing anyone, you can meet a lot of new friends at the 21st annual Cru Dinner. Run by Mike Alpern and Dan Chall, Mr. Alpern reports that, on average, roughly one-third of the Cru Dinner attendees are first-timers, so you will not be alone in your “newbieness.”As Mr. Alpern and Mr. Chall say, the Cru Dinner is “where civility reigns and one can properly prepare oneself for the humiliation that lies ahead.” They’re kidding, mostly.The dinner will be held on Friday, March 22 from 6 — 8 p.m. in Sam’s American Bistro, the Marriott’s restaurant located in the lobby, to the left of the main bar.I will try to stop by to say hello to friends both old and new, and look forward to seeing you there.[Additional information and registration instructions] Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement