AdvertisementSupported byBy John Koblin and Edmund LeeA private arbitrator ruled this month that Fox must pay the extraordinary sum of $178.7 million to former producers and stars of the procedural crime television series “Bones” in a dispute over profit participation.The award spotlights a longstanding gripe among even well-compensated Hollywood players over the value of their work, especially as deep-pocketed newcomers like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon and Apple come courting. Studios have often been criticized for what some consider questionable accounting practices that cut into back-end payouts.The ruling spilled into public view on Wednesday after the plaintiffs in the case filed a petition to confirm the arbitration award in Los Angeles Superior Court.The arbitrator, Peter D. Lichtman, said that Fox pocketed tens of millions of dollars that should have gone to the “Bones” team. He ordered Fox to pay the plaintiffs $50 million in damages and an additional $128 million in punitive damages. Fox is contesting the $128 million ruling.In his 66-page ruling, the arbitrator accused several Fox senior executives — including the 21st Century Fox president Peter Rice and the Fox Television Group co-chief executive Dana Walden — of perjuring themselves. Mr. Lichtman said that those executives “appear to have given false testimony in an attempt to conceal their wrongful acts” and accused them of a “pattern of deceit.”“The arbitrator is convinced that perjury was committed by the Fox witnesses,” Mr. Lichtman wrote.Arbitration hearings are meant to be private and rarely come to light. Fox executives, however, were stunned by the ruling, which they saw as heavily one-sided, according to two people with direct knowledge of their thinking. The opinion left the company little leverage to negotiate a settlement, and the executives decided to contest the damages, the people said. That would also require public scrutiny before a judge.In a statement, 21st Century Fox said, “The ruling by this private arbitrator is categorically wrong on the merits and exceeded his arbitration powers. Fox will not allow this flagrant injustice, riddled with errors and gratuitous character attacks, to stand and will vigorously challenge the ruling in a court of law.”“Bones,” an hourlong crime show, was a sturdy hit for Fox from 2005 to 2017. It starred Emily Deschanel and David Boreanaz, both of whom were plaintiffs in the case, along with the executive producer Barry Josephson and the writer Kathy Reichs, who wrote the novels the series was based on.An arbitration hearing requires both sides to agree to the terms of possible damages beforehand. The plaintiffs and defendants also agree in advance to abide by the ruling, without the recourse of an appeal, as in a court trial. But a party can contest an arbitration judgment if it determines that an arbitrator has awarded damages that fall outside the agreed upon terms.Complicating matters is that both Mr. Rice and Ms. Walden are weeks away from moving into senior leadership roles at the Walt Disney Company after it closes on its purchase of the bulk of 21st Century Fox’s entertainment properties.Fox has been under the leadership of its chairman, Rupert Murdoch, who built his media empire over more than six decades. Last year he agreed to sell the majority of his business to Disney for $71.3 billion. As part of the transaction, Mr. Rice is poised to become the chairman of Walt Disney Television and Ms. Walden will become the chairwoman of Disney Television Studios and ABC Entertainment.Hours after the ruling become public, Disney’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, defended his incoming senior executives.“Peter Rice and Dana Walden are highly respected leaders in this industry, and we have complete confidence in their character and integrity,” Mr. Iger said in a statement. “Disney had no involvement in the arbitration, and we understand the decision is being challenged and will leave it to the courts to decide the matter.”At minimum, the producers and the stars of “Bones” will be awarded $50 million in damages, but it’s unclear who will be on the hook for that payment. The plaintiffs sued Fox’s television studio, which produced the show; the broadcast network, which aired the show; and 21st Century Fox, the studio and network’s parent company.In the coming weeks, Fox’s television studio will become part of Disney but the broadcast network will remain with Mr. Murdoch as part of a smaller company to be named Fox Corporation. Both Disney and Fox did not offer any explanation for who would be responsible for payment.The extraordinary award for damages has piqued the interest of the creative set in Hollywood. The entertainment industry has undergone a remarkable change with Netflix, Hulu, Facebook, Amazon and Apple cutting big checks for original content. Older fare has also become incredibly valuable. Netflix paid about $100 million to keep “Friends” for at least another year. The show, a decade-long hit for NBC, went off the air in 2004.But as streaming services become more dominant, the economics of entertainment have become more opaque. Producers have struggled to understand how to value their work on a service like Netflix, which rarely offers data on viewership. Hulu, a joint venture whose owners include both Fox and Disney, is buying rights to shows from its own investors. The “Bones” arbitrator has suggested Fox was self-dealing when it sold the show’s digital rights to Hulu, potentially depriving the plaintiffs of millions in extra fees.The case is scheduled to move from the shadows of arbitration to a Los Angeles courtroom in late April. The “Bones” team will seek to collect its money, while Fox is looking to vacate the $128 million ruling.“We are so proud of the hard work we did on ‘Bones’ for 12 seasons and only ever wanted Fox to live up to its promises and contractual obligations,” said Ms. Deschanel. “I am grateful that such a well-respected arbitrator reviewed the facts so thoroughly before ruling the way he did. I look forward to the legal system continuing to hold Fox accountable so that we can all move forward.”Advertisement