AdvertisementSupported byBoîteThe Chelsea hot-spot is the latest from Richie Hosein, a Southampton night-life fixture. By Michael MustoBottle service is far from dead — it just comes with extra incentives to draw a crowd these days. At the Red Rabbit Club (on the site of the former Gilded Lily), moneyed patrons are courted by dancers, a magician and other forms of entertainment. Party hosts have included 50 Cent, Future, Travis Scott and Jonathan Cheban. “We are offering a unique venue with remarkable energy and newsworthy entertainment,” said Richie Hosein, the owner, who also operates the AM Southampton nightclub in the Hamptons.This wonderland of plush velvet banquettes is situated down two flights of stairs, past a long bar. Seventeen tables, which range from $2,000 to $20,000 for bottle service, flank a dance floor and a sizable video screen that shows psychedelic imagery. Weekend nights bring a carnival dancer or two, complete with confetti and sparklers. On Saturdays, John Stessel, a 24-year-old magician, performs card tricks and fire stunts, and makes shots appear out of nowhere. He does everything but pull a red rabbit out of a hat.Hedge fund types with Cheshire-cat grins party alongside fashion folk and 30-ish hipsters. Clusters of men and women often intersect for a buzzy feel that involves shmoozing, dancing and observing. Designer clothing is prevalent, but also H&M, fake fur and hoodies, everyone looking glamorously casual. On a recent Saturday night, Robbie Allen, a glamorous 36-year-old woman in a black BCBG Max Azria dress, was amused by the statusy seating arrangement. “It’s about, ‘This is how much I spend,’” she said. While she spoke, screams were heard, not because someone had gotten their bill, but because Mr. Stessel was performing one of his flaming stunts.Mel DeBarge, one of the recurring D.J.s, said he plays everything including hip-hop, R&B and disco. “I play new and old: Travis Scott and Donna Summer. I keep things interesting for myself,” he said, laughing.If you haven’t booked a table, you have to meet the doorman’s discretion. It helps to look pulled together and seem eager to have fun. Even then, there’s often some wait time. There is no cover charge.Customers hit up the bar for mostly basic drinks — $16 vodka sodas, plus shots and beer. “Nothing fancy,” said one of the bartenders. “People just want to get drunk.” Those at tables get served by processions of gals in skimpy outfits holding lit-up bottles. Some tricks never fade.Red Rabbit Club, 408 West 15th Street, 718-916-3690, redrabbitclub.com. Open Fridays and Saturdays, 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.Advertisement