AdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanAndy Samberg’s cop comedy “Brooklyn Nine-Nine” makes its sixth season premiere on NBC, and the first season of “Lodge 49” is available to stream on Hulu.BROOKLYN NINE-NINE 9 p.m. on NBC. After Andy Samberg’s police comedy was canned from Fox in May, NBC announced  that it had picked up the show for its sixth season. The NBC premiere follows Samberg’s Jake Peralta and Melissa Fumero’s Amy Santiago on their honeymoon, while Captain Holt finds out whether he’ll become the new N.Y.P.D. commissioner.TRUTH AND LIES: MONICA AND BILL 9 p.m. on ABC. It’s been nearly 20 years since Congress attempted to impeach President Bill Clinton for charges that stemmed from the Monica Lewinsky scandal, but the bombshell political saga continues to reverberate across pop culture. Last year, it became the subject of the second season of Slate’s “Slow Burn” podcast, and the events were also considered for an installment of Ryan Murphy’s “American Crime Story” series. (The creator reconsidered.) On Thursday night, however, a two-hour special on ABC takes a closer look at the scandal, including hours of phone calls Linda Tripp secretly recorded between herself and Lewinsky, who was then a White House intern. The special also features surveillance material and recordings gathered by the special counsel, and excerpts from Barbara Walters’s 1999 interview with Lewinsky. The “Truth and Lies” series has delved into true crimes like the Menendez brothers murders and the Jonestown massacre.THE GOOD PLACE 9:30 p.m. on NBC. Since the show’s midseason finale last month, the only high jinks we’ve gotten to see from the “Good Place” gang came during the Golden Globes, when Jameela Jamil, who plays Tahani on the show, was hilariously misnamed “Kamilah Al-Jamil,” her one-upping onscreen sister, in a title card on the E! red-carpet preshow. But on Thursday fans will finally get to see the group reunited in what appears to be the honest-to-goodness Good Place.LODGE 49 on Hulu. Sunday night’s Golden Globe Awards celebrated what the Hollywood Foreign Press Association deemed the best of film and television, but many shows that hit the small screen in 2018 may have been overlooked. One such series, which The New York Times named one of the best on TV last year, was AMC’s “Lodge 49,” which follows the misadventures of a down-and-out surfer, Dud (Wyatt Russell), who, moneyless, jobless and unapologetically aimless, somehow winds up finding purpose in a fraternal lodge that is home to eccentric Californians like himself. The Times critic James Poniewozik named the show a Critic’s Pick, and said, “Falling into ‘Lodge 49’ is like hanging out at an oddball dive bar that you ignored the instinct to keep walking past.” The first season is available to stream on Hulu, and is available on Amazon Prime, YouTube, Google Play and Vudu.Advertisement