AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe comedian Ramy Youssef stars in a new series on Hulu. And another comic, Baron Vaughn, hosts a new Comedy Central show with the rapper Open Mike Eagle.RAMY Stream on Hulu. The comedian Ramy Youssef plays a semi-loafing version of himself in this new comedy. Set in New Jersey and centered on a Muslim family (the 20-something Ramy of the series still lives at home), the show promises freshness from the very fact that Ramy’s problems are familiar. The comedy “tells the story of a young American Muslim grappling with his faith along with the usual array of 20-something pressures: romance, career aspirations, drugs, parents,” Sopan Deb wrote in a recent article in The New York Times. “It’s a simple formula, but after decades of Muslims being depicted onscreen as terrorists and villains or otherwise pushed to the side, it’s practically revolutionary.” So Youssef’s character deals with some common struggles, like his family routinely chiding him for lack of ambition. “You’re like the kids in Egypt,” Ramy’s uncle, played by Laith Nakli, says at one point. “They throw down the government, big revolution. Then what? No plan.”BOSCH Stream on Amazon. This old-school cop series deals with a new-school crisis in its latest season, as the show’s titular detective (Titus Welliver) is thrust into a case involving an opioid pill mill. Based on Michael Connelly’s long-running series of novels, the show has a reputation for dependably delivering both action and nostalgia, thanks to its classic procedural feel. In his review of Season 4 for The Times, Mike Hale compared the series to that paragon of Los Angeles cop shows, “Dragnet,” but set in the present. “Neither the character nor the show makes apologies for being old school,” Hale wrote. “‘Bosch’ isn’t the best or most original series, but it’s honest and reliable, like Bosch.”LOSERS Stream on Netflix. This sports documentary series focuses on something many would disparage: losing. The first season profiles athletes in several fields — including boxing, figure skating, golfing and curling — who must deal with defeats.THE NEW NEGROES WITH BARON VAUGHN & OPEN MIKE EAGLE 11 p.m. on Comedy Central. The actor and comedian Baron Vaughn and the rapper Open Mike Eagle named this new comedy show after “The New Negro,” the anthology that collected Harlem Renaissance-era African-American writers, including W. E. B. Du Bois, Zora Neale Hurston and Langston Hughes. Each episode showcases comics and musicians. The first episode has comedy from Chris Redd (of “Saturday Night Live”), Shalewa Sharpe, Langston Kerman and Hannibal Buress, plus music from Danny Brown.VICE SPECIAL REPORT: THE FUTURE OF WORK 10 p.m. on HBO. This special looks at automation, and some of the industries that will potentially be most transformed in a future with more sophisticated artificial intelligence. It begins with a discussion with a group of truckers and an executive from a company researching truck automation.Advertisement