AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiThe latest installment in the “Jurassic Park” franchise gets its television debut. And four drag queens help a bride who’s in need in a new TLC special.JURASSIC WORLD: FALLEN KINGDOM (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on streaming platforms. As is the case with almost every film franchise, the “Jurassic Park” sequels haven’t found the same success as the original 1993 movie. This fifth iteration was narrowly saved by mixed reviews: Variety said it plays like a 1970s “disaster movie run amok.” Vulture said the movie is “chasing its own tail.” And A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times that it “is in most respects a dumber, less ambitious movie than its immediate predecessor, and also, for just that reason, a little bit more fun.” Set three years after 2015’s “Jurassic World,” the film follows Claire (Bryce Dallas Howard), an activist, and Owen (Chris Pratt), an animal-behavior specialist, as they try to rescue dinosaurs from a fictional island before it erupts. Once they arrive and track down the creatures, they realize they have been duped by bad guys who have sinister plans for the reptiles.MICHAEL JACKSON: THE JURY SPEAKS 9 p.m. on Oxygen. Questions about Michael Jackson’s alleged pedophilia have been dominating the headlines after the HBO documentary “Leaving Neverland” debuted last Sunday. But accusations surfaced many years before the documentary, which focused on two men who were coming forward with abuse allegations against the pop star for the first time. In 2003, Jackson was accused of molesting a 13-year-old boy at his Neverland Valley ranch; two years later, he was acquitted of all charges. In “The Jury Speaks,” part of a true crime series that aired in 2017, five members of the jury from the trial explain why they found Jackson innocent and Thomas Mesereau, Jackson’s lead lawyer at the time, details how he won the case.DRAG ME DOWN THE AISLE 9 p.m. on TLC. In this new wedding special, four drag queens — Alexis Michelle, Bebe Zahara Benet, Thorgy Thor and Jujubee — come to the rescue as Emily, a bride-to-be, prepares for her big day. Struggling with a tight budget and body image issues, Emily second-guesses her dress and worries about the venue. Over the course of three weeks, the queens, all of whom are former contestants on “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” give Emily a makeover, help her plan a fantasy wedding reception and encourage her to find her “inner queen.”SUBURBIA (1984) stream on Amazon or Hulu; rent on Amazon. Penelope Spheeris (“The Little Rascals,” “Wayne’s World”) directed this coming-of-age drama about a pack of young Los Angeles runaways (among them: Chris Pedersen, Bill Coyne and Jennifer Clay) who live in a rundown sanctuary of sorts off Interstate 605. Together they keep each other safe and steer clear of a local vigilante group that blames them for all of the neighborhood’s problems. In his review for The Times, Vincent Canby applauded the cast’s performances and called the movie cleareyed and compassionate.Advertisement