AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffCan “Saturday Night Live” still write an opening sketch that isn’t about the misadventures of the Trump administration? This week’s episode showed that yes, it can, though it still had to reach into its celebrity Rolodex to get it done.Jason Sudeikis, an “S.N.L.” alumnus, returned to his longtime role as Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president, who this past week responded after four women said they were uncomfortable being touched by him. (The episode, hosted by the “Game of Thrones” star Kit Harington, also featured a couple of sketches lampooning that popular HBO fantasy drama.)In the opening sketch, Sudeikis met with two campaign aides, played by cast members Cecily Strong and Kenan Thompson, who explained that they had an urgent matter to discuss with him.“Joe, it’s about all the touchy feely stuff,” Thompson said.Strong added, “If you’re really going to run in 2020, you have to change the way you interact with women.”Slipping back into his gregarious, oblivious portrayal of Biden, Sudeikis said, “You guys know that I’m a tactile politician, right? I’m a hugger, I’m a kisser and I’m a little bit of a sniffer. But the last thing I ever want to do is offend anyone.”His aides introduced him to a sensitivity-training consultant (Kate McKinnon), whom Sudeikis greeted by putting his nose and forehead against hers. “I’m just connecting,” he said.McKinnon replied, “So this is exactly the kind of thing that I’m here to prevent.”Sudeikis said that he, too, had recently taken a DNA test, just like “Lizzie Warren.” “It turns out that I’m one percent Eskimo so I’m allowed to do the kissing,” he said. He and McKinnon then talked through a couple of hypothetical scenarios when meeting people on the campaign trail.If he were to greet a woman with a handshake, Sudeikis asked, “What if during that handshake, I go ahead and I tickle her palm a little bit?”McKinnon replied, “I would say no tickling at all.”Sudeikis said, “Am I still allowed to do something like that gorgeous lift that they do at the end of ‘Dirty Dancing’?”Who would you do that with?, she asked him. He answered, “Hell, I don’t know. Whoever’s strong enough to pick me up, I guess.”Finally, Sudeikis was introduced to two prospective voters, the first played by Aidy Bryant. He put her in a headlock and gave her a noogie; she responded by punching him in the stomach. As she left the room, he said, “I have to say she’s still on the fence.”The second voter, played by Leslie Jones, greeted him enthusiastically. “You’re Obama’s granddaddy!” she exclaimed.Asked at the end of the exercise if he had learned anything, Sudeikis answered, “Not really, no. But the important thing, I think, is that I’m listening. I hear you and I feel you.” He proposed a campaign slogan: “Let’s hug it out, America — Biden and some woman in 2020.”For Harington’s monologue,“S.N.L.” went with one of its most familiar gimmicks: having the host field questions from ringers in the studio audience. After an eerily clean-shaven Harington vowed that he wouldn’t reveal how “Game of Thrones” concludes, he nevertheless faced several variations on that question — from his “Thrones” cast mates.Emilia Clarke, who plays Daenerys Targaryen, said she’d already forgotten the ending to the show. “It’s been so damn long since the last season,” she said, adding: “Do you remember in Season 6 when we had sex? Did you know they filmed that?”John Bradley, who plays the hapless Samwell Tarly, asked him, “Do you think we’ll still hang out after the show is done, like best friends? What about next Tuesday, I could come around by 6 a.m.?”(Pete Davidson, in costume as the villainous, undead Night King, wanted to know: “Do people hate me? Because it really feels like they hate me.”)Finally, Rose Leslie, who played Ygritte and is Harington’s real-life wife, asked him, “What are we going to do for money now?”In a fake HBO commercial, “S.N.L.” imagined the cable network’s future after “Game of Thrones” is over: a lineup saturated with “Thrones”-related prequels, sequels and spinoffs.Those shows included “Castle Black,” a moody, “Riverdale”-style drama about the forbidden romance between Jon Snow (Harington) and a female white walker (Heidi Gardner); an animated series in the style of MTV’s “Daria,” called — what else? — “Arya”; a sitcom called “The Queen of King’s Landing”; as well as “Cersei and the City”; “The Marvelous Mrs. Melisandre”; and a crime procedural, “Game of Thrones: Special Victims Unit,” starring Mariska Hargitay and Ice-T.At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on Biden’s troubles and the legal battle over the final report of the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III.CHE:Four women have come forward claiming that Joe Biden touched them in ways that made them feel uncomfortable. And yeah, I could see that. He looks like one of those uncles that calls spring ‘Sundress Time.’ It’s very disappointing, but older people, in general, have a problem with boundaries. There’s a lady in my building who’s like 75. And every time I see her, she grabs my arm and says something dirty. It’s very uncomfortable but I let her because she’s hot.JOST:On Wednesday, Biden released a video responding to the allegations, and I’m not sure that it helped. Yeah, so it was supposed to be an apology, not a re-enactment. Also, the look of the video is so weird. Why is it shot vertically? It looks like something from a premium, adults-only Snapchat. And of course nothing puts women at ease like a man on a leather couch who’s already taken off his tie. He might as well end the video by unbuttoning his shirt and saying, ‘to find out what happens next, log onto GoDaddy.com.’And then a pro-Trump group released a new ad saying that Biden’s behavior with women is unacceptable and should instantly disqualify him from running. The group’s name is Independent Republicans of New York, or IRONY.CHE:The House Judiciary Committee voted to subpoena the full, unredacted Mueller report from the White House. Man, I really wish I knew about redacting when I was in school. I probably would have graduated. “I did my report, it’s just redacted right now.” If Donald Trump stole his presidency, why don’t we just steal it back? If I was running for president, I would be in Putin’s DMs right now, negotiating. Why is everybody trying to play fair with this guy? Even the F.B.I. Oh, you didn’t find anything? Then plant it, you’re the F.B.I. Just turn off your body cam and put some crack in his shoes, man.Not to neglect the political turmoil on the other side of the Atlantic, “S.N.L.” cast McKinnon as Theresa May, the British prime minister, trying to keep her spirits up after Parliament rejected numerous plans to withdraw the nation from the European Union.In a filmed segment set to the Sara Bareilles song “She Used to Be Mine,” McKinnon walked through the streets of Britain, drawing nasty looks from her fellow citizens and some obscene gestures from royal guards. As the sketch went to increasingly surreal extremes, we also saw McKinnon performing an interpretive dance while dressed in a Union Jack body suit, and taking an imaginary twirl with Winston Churchill (likely the only time we’ll ever see Kit Harington play this role).Advertisement