AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara Aridi“Crazy Rich Asians” makes its television debut on HBO. And BTS bring K-pop to “Saturday Night Live.”CRAZY RICH ASIANS (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; Stream on HBO platforms. This ultraglamorous romantic comedy barely needs an introduction. Based on the novel of the same name by Kevin Kwan, the movie made waves last year for being the first Hollywood production with a majority Asian cast since 1993’s “The Joy Luck Club.” (In an interview with The New York Times, the director Jon M. Chu said he wanted the film to be “the ‘Avengers’ of Asian actors.”) Constance Wu stars as Rachel, a middle-class economics professor at New York University who joins her boyfriend, Nick (Henry Golding), on a trip to Singapore, whereupon she learns that his family is among the richest in the country. The differences between her upbringing and his become hard to ignore — Nick’s judgmental mother (Michelle Yeoh) flat-out tells Rachel she isn’t right for her son — but our heroine refuses to go down without a fight. For those craving more crazy, rich fun, a sequel based on Kwan’s second book in the series is already in the works.CHASING LIFE WITH DR. SANJAY GUPTA 9 p.m. on CNN. In this new documentary series, the journalist and neurosurgeon Sanjay Gupta flies to six countries in search of elixirs, traditions and modern practices that might have the potential to extend our life spans. In the first of two back-to-back episodes, Gupta explores how people in Tokyo manage work-induced stress; in the second, he tries to find a connection between age-old methods in India and his own Western medical training.SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE 11:30 p.m. on NBC. Emma Stone returns to host for the fourth time, while the musical guest BTS comes to “S.N.L.” for the first. The South Korean boy band will perform songs off their new album, “Map of the Soul: Persona,” and are likely to make a splash: Their third album, 2018’s “Love Yourself: Tear,” was the first K-pop release to debut atop the Billboard album chart. In the teaser to the episode, Stone and a few women from the “S.N.L.” cast camp out on stage in BTS shirts eagerly waiting the performance — not unlike the group’s superfans who call themselves the Army.WHITE MATERIAL (2010) Stream on Mubi; Rent on Google Play, iTunes or YouTube. With Clair Denis’s new sci-fi movie “High Life” currently playing on big screens, the streaming service Mubi is revisiting some of the director’s earlier work. This political drama centers on a white French family that runs a coffee plantation in an unnamed African country in the throes of a civil war. The most steadfast of the bunch, Maria (Isabelle Huppert), wants to finish harvesting her crops, but her former husband Andre (Christopher Lambert) and his father, the patriarch of the plantation, are desperate to flee before the violence inches closer. As Maria clings to her plot of land with all her might, she is drawn into the violence around her and is forced to confront the color of her skin.Advertisement