AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe Cohn“Veep” returns for a final season on HBO. And “10 Things I Hate About You” turns 20 years old.VEEP 10:30 p.m. on HBO. The “Run, Selina, Run” signs are out for Selina Meyer, the onetime president played by Julia Louis-Dreyfus in HBO’s farcical political comedy series, which returns Sunday for a seventh and final season. Meyer is back on the campaign trail, but she doesn’t go around kissing babies (though she does make one cry). Instead, she ponders ways to spin fictional mass shootings into political assets and throws her cellphone on the ground in disgust after her staffers fly her to the wrong Iowa town. “America owes me an eight-year stay in the White House,” she says later. “And this time, I want a war.”MRS. WILSON 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Ruth Wilson, a star of “The Affair” and “Luther,” plays a fictionalized version of her own grandmother in this mini-series. It’s a mysterious story of secrets and clandestine operations that begins in 1963, when Alison Wilson (Ruth Wilson) meets her deceased husband’s wife. Yes, you read that right: Iain Glen (“Game of Thrones”) plays that husband, a writer and former MI6 agent who dies in the first minutes of the story, leaving behind a tangle of secrets, including a hidden double life. Unraveling the mysteries becomes Alison’s occupation, and the focus of the mini-series. PBS is showing it in two parts, the first on Sunday and the second on April 7.BARRY 10 p.m. on HBO. “The end of the first season of ‘Barry’ was so good,” James Poniewozik wrote in The New York Times last year, “That it made me never want to watch the show again.” Barry, Bill Hader’s hit man with heart, is back, despite that deft ending. In the first season, Barry eventually traded killing for newfound love. The second season continues the story — so it seems his redemption was short lived.BLACK MONDAY 10 p.m. on Showtime. The crash will finally come in the Season 1 finale of this drug-fueled parody of 1980s Wall Street, which stars Don Cheadle, Regina Hall, Andrew Rannells and Paul Scheer as members of a scrappy brokerage firm. Since it began in January, the series has counted down the days of the year leading to the infamous 1987 crash known as Black Monday. Sunday night’s episode, “0,” sees the countdown clock to financial doomsday finally run out.10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU (1999) Rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu and YouTube. This time capsule of late ’90s teenage angst turns 20 years old on Sunday. Heath Ledger, Julia Stiles, Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Larisa Oleynik star as students at a Seattle-area high school. The plot, based on Shakespeare’s “The Taming of the Shrew,” involves a marching band, a prom and the pursuit of forbidden love. “It’s projecting a fantasy of a high school experience,” Oleynik told The Times recently. “But it’s also grounded in what most 17-year-olds are still feeling, what I’m still feeling as a 37-year-old.”Advertisement