AdvertisementSupported byStar Trek: DiscoveryBy Sopan DebIn the penultimate episode of this “Star Trek: Discovery” season, we get fan service: a lot of it. There are gratuitous shots of the Enterprise, complete with the musical riff familiar to Trek fans of multiple generations. We spend much of the episode on what will eventually become Kirk’s ship (or will it?) instead of the Discovery. We see the colorful uniforms we grew to love in the original series (in contrast to the dark blue typical of the Discovery crew). We hear the whooshes of the sliding doors and the whistle when Pike walks on the bridge.“She looks as good as I remember,” Pike says. Better, in fact, thanks to decades worth of production upgrades.The Trek franchise has been in dire need of a fresher look, and this week’s episode was a distinct reminder of what a visual upgrade “Discovery” is.I was into it, and not just because of how it looked. Previous Trek shows with tie-ins to earlier iterations sometimes struggle to keep the story their own — see the “Voyager” episode “Death Wish” involving Q. But the best ones (“Unification” in “The Next Generation”) keep the tone the show has already established while also properly integrating external elements from its forebears.“Such Sweet Sorrow” has Burnham preparing to make a giant sacrifice. The sphere and the Discovery have merged, making it impossible to destroy, while Leland and Control are speeding to come get the data. As Spock says, “Discovery’s very existence is the problem.”Burnham proposes using the crystal to “take the data out of this time,” meaning, “Discovery has to go to the future.” But of course, Burnham is the one who must go to the future without a certain path back to the present. Spock deduces that there is more than one Red Angel — one of them being Burnham.A new signal appears that leads the Discovery to Xahea, to the delight of Tilly. Xahea, you might remember, was the focus of one of the “Short Trek” episodes from before the official second season of “Discovery.” The queen of Xahea, Po, is a 17-year-old who developed technology to recrystallize dilithium, which comes in handy in creating the supernova necessary to launch Burnham and the Discovery into the future.Burnham’s crewmates, in a show of loyalty, commit to going with her into the future, suggesting that we might never see the Discovery crew again — unless the rest of the show takes place in the future. (Curiously, Pike offers to wear the suit in the first part of the episode but doesn’t offer to go later on. I was also surprised that Grayson and Sarek didn’t offer to go as well.)The problem here is a self-created one by the “Discovery” writing team: Much of the episode features emotional goodbyes, but as we’ve seen, characters too often appear to get killed off only to return. And in this case, Spock is one of the crew who says he’ll go with Burnham to the future — and we know that this actually doesn’t happen, unless we are just wholly disregarding Trek canon.My prediction is that Burnham doesn’t even get to make the trip because Control finds a way to disrupt the time crystal in the finale.In terms of the Control-as-Original-Borg theory, I’m beginning to come around. I’ve said before that I don’t think this is a good idea for “Star Trek” as a whole, but let’s see if that actually happens in the season finale. Vulture’s Devon Maloney wrote a really smart piece arguing for how brilliant that idea would be, if true. I’m not sure I agree, but let’s see the execution first.I enjoyed this week’s episode in part because of how much time we spent on the Enterprise. Some scenes made me laugh. At one point, Stamets snaps at his crew members to move quickly, emphasizing the urgency of the retrofit at hand. Seconds later, he pauses to have a personal conversation with Culber about the state of their relationship, which seems like a conversation that could’ve waited. But overall, it was a tightly focused episode, emphasizing the boldness of the writing staff.Now, as Saru says to close the episode, “Prepare for battle.”Advertisement