AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike HaleThe first episode of “The Passage,” a new horror-thriller beginning Monday on Fox, offers a helpful one-sentence villain bio and mission statement. “He’s immune to disease, but he’s also a lethal bloodsucking monster who we are all very careful not to call a vampire,” announces a scientist (who seems unlikely to survive past mid-season). So: Battle lines drawn.That note of satirical self-awareness pops up now and then in what’s otherwise an earnest genre jambalaya: a medical-supernatural-conspiracy shoot ’em up. Based on a trilogy of novels by Justin Cronin, “The Passage” posits a scientific cause — experimentation with a rare virus from the Bolivian jungle — for a paranormal consequence, the creation of beasts (don’t call them vampires!) who, if the series lasts and hews to the books, will ravage the planet.Through three episodes, though, the show’s main interest doesn’t lie in the ghoulish, dream-invading creatures, former death-row inmates who, for now, are safely locked up in a Colorado compound. Nor is it in the variously concerned or hubristic doctors, who were trying to develop a bird-flu vaccine and got something else. (Even though one of them is played by Henry Ian Cusick, always welcome and always the guy who played Desmond in “Lost.”)No, what makes “The Passage” a better-than-average show of its type is the other side of the story, in which Mark-Paul Gosselaar plays Brad, a federal agent who rebels when he’s sent to apprehend a young girl named Amy (for further experiments) and instead goes on the run with her. It’s a crowd-pleasing, comic-sentimental setup, with the wisecracking but vulnerable child consistently one-upping, and bailing out of trouble, the man who becomes her surrogate father, and Gosselaar does a capable job as a younger version of a Clint Eastwood coot.He’s still in the unfortunate position of playing many of his scenes with that child, though, and the 12-year-old actress, Saniyya Sidney, steals them all — partly because they’re written that way, with Brad as Amy’s straight man, and partly because Sidney is a natural scene stealer who already knows how to zero in on a laugh and how to angle her face for a wide-eyed reaction. (She made her debut as Kizzy in the 2016 “Roots” remake and played the daughter of Taraji P. Henson’s character in “Hidden Figures.”)She may not have the pure, slightly eerie intensity projected by some other child actors who play supernatural action heroes, like Millie Bobby Brown in “Stranger Things” or Madeleine McGraw in “Outcast.” But her self-possession and charming way with a put-down are the strong points of a show that’s otherwise a blend of familiar elements.Liz Heldens, who developed “The Passage” for television, has created previous shows, like “Camp” and “Mercy” for NBC, that had personality but also broadcast-network predictability. Here, in boiling down the many hundreds of pages of Cronin’s trilogy, she ends up with central elements straight out of the prime-time catalog: the scientist who puts the whole world in danger to save a sick relative, the tortured cop who’s not over his ex, the company-man killer with glimmers of conscience.In “The Passage,” the early episodes pop because they’re built around Brad and Amy’s flight, a multiepisode set piece with its own emotional payoff. And promos for the show suggest that Amy will soon develop her own abilities, providing the surefire satisfaction of little-body-with-big-powers confrontations.It remains to be seen, though, how Heldens will balance the horror elements with the I’ll-stand-by-you melodrama, and how she’ll pace a story that, in the novels, stretches across a century. (Also whether the show will continue to be as bloody, by gun and by fang, as it is in the early episodes.) There are signs that she might go down the “Lost” road of substituting flashbacks for real-time character development.For now, “The Passage” should appeal to those who like their popcorn TV less touchy-feely and more action-oriented than NBC’s fall hit, “Manifest.” For those interested in similar vampire-infection material done with more subtlety and menace, the four seasons of “The Strain” can be streamed on Hulu.Advertisement