AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Mike HaleLooking at the new international series that have arrived on American television and streaming services over the last few months, so many of the standouts were crime shows that we gave in and made this an all-crime international roundup. From murder in London to regicide in medieval Korea to fraud on the Côte d’Azur, here are five series presented in order of quality, starting with the very best, that should satisfy your needs for both deduction and exploration.Acorn TV, starting MondayThe hit of the year in Britain so far (and the ITV network’s highest-rated new show since “Broadchurch” in 2013) is this low-key, straightforward and economical (2 hours 15 minutes) mini-series about the hunt for a serial killer. Based on an actual case in the London suburbs, the story is heavily procedural — it takes place almost entirely within the investigation, and nearly all the major characters are police officers — and if you like that kind of story, it’s tremendously satisfying. Martin Clunes, as the detective assigned to manage the case, plays a variation on his long-running role in the medical dramedy “Doc Martin”: highly capable but awkward, quarrelsome and unsure of his position at the Met (better known to Americans as Scotland Yard).NetflixExpanding the borders of the true-crime documentary, this chilling two-part series re-examines the disappearance of 43 young men in southern Mexico in 2014. (The Spanish langugage title translates as “The Days of Ayotzinapa,” referring to the teachers college the victims attended.)Part 1 recreates the night of the disappearance, carefully delineating a chaotic and terrifyingly violent series of events spread across the small city of Iguala. Part 2 recounts the investigations and cover-ups that followed, weighs the different theories and offers a thorough indictment of the Mexican state — the federal and local governments, the military and the police. The series is presided over by the writer Paco Ignacio Taibo II and features passionate testimony from the journalists Paula Monaco and Anabel Hernández. Its most indelible characters, though, are the parents of the 43 missing — no bodies have ever been found — tirelessly protesting, advocating and chanting, “They took them alive, we want them back alive.”NetflixThis rousing South Korean series covers a lot of bases — zombie horror, contagion thriller, palace intrigue, horseback action, social satire — but it starts with a crime, or the question of whether a crime has been committed. Is the king alive, dead or somewhere in-between? And how does that play into his young second wife’s attempt to steal the throne from his first son?A Netflix original adapted by Kim Eun-hee from her web comic “The Kingdom of the Gods” and directed by Kim Seong-hun (“Tunnel”), “Kingdom” has the rich production values you expect from a South Korean historical drama (episodes reportedly cost close to $1.8 million each) but in many ways it feels as if it were made with an international audience in mind. The humor is less broad than usual, the acting more naturalistic, the flashbacks fewer and easier to follow, the family relationships less complicated. Most noticeably, the episode count is kept to six. (That’s a bit of a bait and switch, though — the season ends on a precipitous cliffhanger and a second season is already in production.)As the crown prince (Ju Ji-hoon) leads a small band of allies (including a doctor played by the international star Bae Doo-na) trying to keep vampiric zombies from overrunning the country, Korea’s traditional class stratification comes in for a strong comedic critique. It’s hard to keep all the corpses from reawakening, for example, when the rules allow you to burn peasants but not the nobility.HuluIn Season 1 of this elaborate mystery series, five Israelis — all apparently civilians, with no connections to one another — were accused of working together to kidnap an Iranian official. Season 2, added to Hulu last month, distills the formula: This time three seemingly unconnected, unexceptional Israelis are charged with sabotaging a pipeline.“False Flag” exercises the license provided by Middle Eastern reality to combine the most extreme elements of the police procedural and the conspiracy thriller, and its hairpin turns give “Homeland” a run for its money. The cast of Shin Bet officers who must uncover the missing connections and find the real culprits carries over to the new season, led by Mickey Leon as the sad-faced Eitan. The new group of suspects, and their bewildered family and friends, include Hanna Azoulay Hasfari and Moran Rosenblatt, excellent (and funny) as an Orthodox woman and her unorthodox daughter. Like other Israeli thrillers, “False Flag” has learned a lot of its moves from American models (the better to perfect them and send them back), but it can be distinctively different in its details. When was the last time an American bad guy managed to escape by grabbing an assault rifle, sitting down next to a schoolboy on a minibus and pretending to be the hired security guard?Ovation, Saturdays; streaming at Sundance NowMoney laundering and art forgery. Niçoise villas and “To Catch a Thief” corniches. A relentless assassin who claws a microchip out of her chest with her fingernails. “Riviera,” currently halfway through its American cable run, has all the ingredients of the international melo-thriller, and because it’s a Neil Jordan project, it’s more voluptuous than most (if no more coherent or plausible). Julia Stiles stars as a Midwestern expat whose billionaire art-collector husband (Anthony LaPaglia) is blown up on a Russian yacht; the great Swedish actress Lena Olin livens things up as the formidable first wife.Advertisement