AdvertisementSupported byBy Margaret LyonsNo matter how much free time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you. Come back every Friday for new suggestions on what to watch.‘While You Were Out’ When to Watch: Saturday at 9 p.m., on TLC and HGTV.After the successful revival of “Trading Spaces,” TLC and HGTV are collectively rebooting “While You Were Out,” another early 2000s home renovation show. On “Out,” homeowners send an unsuspecting spouse on a short trip and redecorate a room as a surprise. This version, hosted by Ananda Lewis ups the budget to $10,000 per room, which alters the “Hey, I could do that” vibe of the low-budget original. But there are still weepy reveals and astoundingly large basements.‘Shrill’ When to watch: Starting Friday, on Hulu.Aidy Bryant stars in this adaptation of the Lindy West memoir “Shrill: Notes From a Loud Woman.” The six-episode season makes for a beautiful binge, though each installment is solid on its own, too. It’s not a coming-of-age story because the characters are already of age, but it is a becoming-yourself story, one in which our heroine learns — and thus teaches — self-acceptance. “Shrill” is funny and emotional and perceptive, and unlike a lot of other contemporary, realistic comedies, it tells the exact right amount of story. If you like shows like “Transparent” or “Catastrophe,” watch this.‘Shtisel’ When to watch: Now, on Netflix.There’s a lot of angry eating on this Israeli import (in Hebrew, with subtitles), but that’s because sublimation is the name of the game. “Shtisel” follows the ultra-Orthodox Shtisel family: a father and his adult children, all of whom are still mourning the death of their mother. Akiva (Michael Aloni), the youngest son, is the dreamy artist, not sure how to meet his father’s exacting standards, especially when he falls in love with a woman he knows his father won’t approve of. There aren’t any crazy set pieces or wild action sequences, but “Shtisel” is addictively, almost obsessively intimate, and it treasures its characters’ smallest behaviors.Advertisement