AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiAmy Sedaris offers dubious homemaking lessons in the second season of her parody show. And two nihilists profit from failed romances in a Netflix comedy.AT HOME WITH AMY SEDARIS 10 p.m. on TruTV. Amy Sedaris returns as an unhinged television host — and several other personas — in this Emmy-nominated sketch-comedy series. Her main character explains: “This show is about hospitality, the act of welcoming guests into your home so you don’t have to go to theirs.” Season 2 opens with an episode on the mysterious ways of teenagers, with the help of Matthew Broderick as a mustachioed expert on teenagers who behaves like anything but. John Early, Bridget Everett and Julie Klausner also guest star.THE VIEW 11 a.m. on ABC. In a “60 Minutes” interview last week, Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, revealed that top Justice Department officials had discussed invoking the 25th Amendment to remove President Trump from office after he fired James B. Comey in May 2017. On the heels of that news, McCabe appears on “The View,” as his new book,  “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump,” hits the stands.AMERICAN MASTERS: SAMMY DAVIS JR.: I’VE GOTTA BE ME 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). “American Masters” celebrates Black History Month with this new portrait of Sammy Davis Jr. — a Renaissance man and leading member of the Rat Pack. Davis’s prolific career began when he was a toddler performing vaudeville with his father and uncle. He went on to embrace music, dance, theater and comedy, and broke ground as a wildly popular black entertainer as the civil rights movement picked up steam. Billy Crystal, Norman Lear, Jerry Lewis and others weigh in on Davis’s storied life in this documentary, followed by 20 minutes of bonus performance footage from his 50-year career.THE BREAKER UPPERERS (2019) stream on Netflix. Ending a relationship is easily one of life’s most dreadful chores. It’s about finding the right words, the right timing, the right reason — and still, the outcome is never clear. So this New Zealand comedy asks: Why not pay someone to break up for you? The actors Jackie van Beek and Madeleine Sami, who also wrote and directed, play best friends Jen and Mel. Their hearts turned stone cold when they discovered they were dating the same man 15 years ago. Disillusioned with love, they start a business for people who can’t dump their partners themselves. (As one client puts it: “I want a nice clean break. I don’t want years of heartache and stalking and therapy and possible violence.”) All goes well until Mel breaks their biggest rule and actually develops some feelings.MARATHON MAN (1976) stream on Amazon or Hulu; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. This classic thriller stars Dustin Hoffman as an ambitious Columbia graduate student who is pulled into an international conspiracy involving a Nazi war criminal played by Laurence Olivier.Advertisement