AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike HaleAlexander Wilson lived an improbable, deceitful, destructive but undeniably intriguing life. An author of popular spy novels and a British secret agent himself in World War II, he married four women from the 1920s through the ’50s without bothering to divorce any of them. He managed to keep his four families mostly secret from each other during his lifetime, and his children (and many grandchildren) only got to know one another more than 40 years after he died.Sounds like a movie. And it is, or in any case a three-part BBC mini-series, which begins Sunday on PBS’s “Masterpiece.” But Alexander Wilson, better known as Alec, isn’t the main character in the show, which is called “Mrs. Wilson” and takes place mostly after his death in 1963.That’s what happens when you devote your life to secrecy and, despite publishing 27 books, never tell your own story. But mainly that’s what happens when one of your curious grandchildren turns out to be a famous actress. Ruth Wilson of “Luther” and “The Affair” is the granddaughter of Alec’s third wife, Alison, and she plays her victimized, mystified grandmother in “Mrs. Wilson,” of which she’s also an executive producer.So rather than the historical adventure or romance it might have been in an earlier era, “Mrs. Wilson” is an interrogation of history, a feminist critique of mid-20th-century British society, a mystery and, least satisfyingly, a character study. The strangeness of the story, and Ruth Wilson’s characteristic intensity, pull us along. But Alison and Alec, and their motivations, never seem to come completely into focus. The series feels caught between fiction and real life, as if the writer (Anna Symon) and the director (Richard Laxton) were unwilling to fully dramatize a history that’s still murky, partly hidden in the files of the British Foreign Office.“Mrs. Wilson” begins with Alec’s sudden death, a shock to Alison and their two sons, Gordon and Nigel (Ruth Wilson’s father). That shock is compounded when Gladys Wilson (Elizabeth Rider), a woman claiming to be Alec’s wife, shows up at Alison’s house and demands to be given his body for burial.That sets Alison on a dual path of discovery and duplicity, as she investigates her husband’s past while resolutely hiding it from her sons, believing that it’s best not to disillusion them. Helping her in her quest, reluctantly and exceedingly begrudgingly, is Coleman, Alec’s former handler at MI6. (Fiona Shaw, who plays the haughty spymaster for laughs in “Killing Eve,” manages to give “Mrs. Wilson” a glimmer of humor while playing the much more dour Coleman.)Other wives and children begin to pile up, along with evidence that Alec may have been a serial fabulist who was not only a bad husband but also a bad spy and a general deadbeat. Whether in deference to the story’s uncertainties, or to the demands of television melodrama, the possibility is left open that this semi-fictional Alec was just a romantic rogue at heart. The show’s real indictment is of those who enable him and make excuses for him, including the government and the church. Even after Alec’s death, Alison is asked to trust him in the language of religion — to maintain her faith in him no matter what she learns.Ruth Wilson has made a habit of playing women defined by their determination and obstinacy under duress, and Alison is right in that wheelhouse. (Her performance and the mini-series were nominated for Bafta awards, to be handed out May 12.) Wilson expertly delineates Alison’s growing dismay and anger along with the increasing strain of trying to maintain, for her sons’ sake, the reality Alec created. If there’s a problem with the portrayal, it’s that Wilson radiates an intelligence and pragmatism (as she always does) that don’t entirely jibe with what we’re seeing — how could Alison have been fooled so completely?That’s one of the many questions that “Mrs. Wilson” can’t, or won’t, definitively answer. It’s more disconcerting than usual when, at the end of the series, Alexander Wilson’s surviving children and their families are assembled onscreen. What we’ve seen over the last three hours shouldn’t have happened, but they’re the proof.An earlier version of this review misstated who wrote the series. It was written by Anna Symon, not Anna Symon and Tim Crook.Mrs. WilsonSunday on PBSAdvertisement