AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiStream Gabriel Iglesias’s new Netflix special. Or gear up for the Super Bowl with a countdown of memorable ads. GABRIEL ‘FLUFFY’ IGLESIAS: ONE SHOW FITS ALL (2019) stream on Netflix. In this follow-up to his 2016 stand-up special, “I’m Sorry for What I Said When I Was Hungry,” Gabriel Iglesias remembers a hazy interview with Snoop Dogg and props up his teenage son as an eligible bachelor. This is set to be a busy year for this actor and comic, who is better known as Fluffy. Iglesias also has a role in the animated movie “UglyDolls,” opening this spring; he will star in his own scripted comedy series on Netflix this year; and he plans to tape another performance for the platform in the near future.SILENT WITNESS on Britbox. This gory procedural, created by a former detective, is the longest-running British crime drama on television. Season 22 lays out five two-part stories and begins with the case of a murdered transgender man and a seemingly related kidnapping that puts the pathologists at the Lyell Center in a tough position. Andrew Knott, Heather Peace and Johann Myers guest star.PLEASANTVILLE (1998) stream on Hulu; rent on iTunes, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube. Fans of “The Truman Show” may get a kick out of this fantasy, which leaves Hulu on Thursday. Gary Ross’s directorial debut concerns the siblings David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon), who fight over a remote control and wind up replacing characters in David’s favorite show, “Pleasantville.” The black-and-white 1950s sitcom is named after a perfect town with perfect people — one that starts to lose its glossy veneer once David and Jennifer bring reality into the frame. As residents begin to show their true colors, David learns that his dear fantasy world isn’t that different from real life. (William H. Macy, Joan Allen and Jeff Daniels round out the cast.) In her review for The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that “much of the interest here is in watching how the black-and-white scenes (filmed on color stock) begin to flower.”RETURNING THE FAVOR stream on Facebook Watch. This feel-good reality show wraps up its third season. The host, Mike Rowe, heads to Pittsburgh to meet Megs Yunn, founder of an organization that creates birthday parties for children in need.SUPER BOWL GREATEST COMMERCIALS 8 p.m. on CBS. With the Super Bowl just around the corner, the CBS sports analyst Boomer Esiason and the “NCIS” actress Daniela Ruah look back at 10 hilarious ads that have run during the game’s coveted — and very pricey — commercial breaks over the years. As of early 2018, roughly $5.4 billion had been spent on advertising since the first game in 1967.CARL WEBER’S THE FAMILY BUSINESS 9 p.m. on BET.  The first season of this drama series, adapted from Carl Weber’s crime novels, closes with an addition to the Duncan family and a momentous revelation about the teenage grandson Nevada.Advertisement