AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnA new Starz series follows a group of Los Angeles millennials. And Janelle Monáe, SZA and Yolanda Adams are among the performers at an Aretha Franklin tribute show on CBS.NOW APOCALYPSE 9 p.m. on Starz. If you have premium cable, you might as well enjoy the freedom it offers filmmakers who want to explore adult matters. Or millennial matters. This proudly hookup-stuffed comedy series, a brainchild of the New Queer Cinema pioneer Gregg Araki and the Vogue sex columnist Karley Sciortino, follows a group of 20-somethings, including Avan Jogia and Kelli Berglund, exploring themselves — and each other — in a color-drenched Los Angeles. It shares some themes with Araki’s “teenage apocalypse trilogy,” about teens dealing with isolation and sexuality. “We started during the twilight years of the Obama administration,” Araki recently told The New York Times. “That’s why the show has that almost utopian quality of free love — these kids having sex and figuring themselves out. Then 2016 happened. There’s always been that darker, Lynchian aspect of the show, but that became more pronounced.”FINDING JUSTICE 8 p.m. on BET. This documentary series looks at inequality in predominantly black communities in six American cities. Sunday night’s debut episode looks at activists in Tampa, Fla., protesting the state's “Stand Your Ground” law. Later episodes center on Baltimore, Minneapolis and St. Paul, Atlanta, Los Angeles and St. Louis.THE CASE AGAINST ADNAN SYED 9 p.m. on HBO. When the first season of the podcast “Serial” debuted in 2014, it introduced listeners to a number of new things, including the concept of a blockbuster podcast and the case of the murder of Hae Min Lee. Lee was 18 when she was found dead in a park in Baltimore in 1999. In 2000, Adnan Syed, Lee’s former boyfriend, was convicted of her murder. The case was the focus of the first season of “Serial.” This four-part documentary series, helmed by the Oscar-nominated documentary filmmaker Amy Berg, revisits the case through new interviews and archival footage. It also updates the story; in the years since “Serial” covered the case, Syed has been granted a retrial.ARETHA! A GRAMMY CELEBRATION FOR THE QUEEN OF SOUL 9 p.m. on CBS. Yolanda Adams, John Legend, Janelle Monáe, SZA, Shirley Caesar and Alicia Keys are among the many Aretha Franklin admirers who perform at this tribute show, which was taped in Los Angeles in January. It’s never a bad time to revisit Franklin’s music, but this month is particularly good: Consider the program an hors d’oeuvre to the wide theatrical release of the Franklin concert film “Amazing Grace” in April.MADE IN HEAVEN Stream on Amazon. Splendorous weddings meet secret romantic pursuits and drama (as they so often do) in this new Indian series. The show centers on a pair of fictional Delhi wedding planners, Tara (Sobhita Dhulipala) and Karan (Arjun Mathur), navigating a world of big-money ceremonies.Advertisement