AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA feel-good movie about guide dogs in training hits Hulu. And the second season of a Finnish crime drama debuts on Netflix.PICK OF THE LITTER (2018) stream on Hulu; rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu or YouTube. This uplifting documentary carries the suspense and drama of reality-TV competitions, but it also offers a healthy dose of squeal-worthy shots. The contestants in question are five puppies training to become guide dogs for the blind over the course of 20 months. With lives at stake, the matter is not taken lightly: Many pups don’t make the cut, and rivalries flare up among the human “puppy raisers.” Whether or not the dogs pass the tests, the tenacity of all involved is simply admirable. “It’s startling, even inspiring, to see how many humans it takes to condition a fully successful dog,” the film critic Ben Kenigsberg wrote in The New York Times. “Every single canine on screen deserves plenty of head-pats and naps in the shade.”BORDERTOWN on Netflix. Tired of the grueling detective work at the National Bureau of Investigation in Finland, Kari Sorjonen (Ville Virtanen) takes a new job as head of a crime unit in a seemingly peaceful town near the Russia border. He expects a quaint life with his family, but is soon pulled into several murder cases. The second season of this Nordic noir television series, which, unlike the first, is dubbed in English, concerns five new crimes and a twist that makes Kari’s life at home just as troubling as his time on the job.RIZE (2005) stream on Mubi; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. The photographer and director David LaChapelle spotlights the electric dance form known as clowning and its successor, krumping, which originated in greater Los Angeles in the early 1990s. (Krumping has since been seen in music videos and in an episode of “Community.”) Early on, the documentary notes that none of the footage has been sped up — the dancers really do pump their chests and flail their arms at frenetic paces. By the end, it captures a momentous battle and conveys that the dances were born despite, or because of, surrounding poverty and gang violence.DEATH OF A CHEERLEADER (2019) 8 p.m. on Lifetime. In 1994, a Rolling Stone article about the murder of a high school student in Northern California inspired the TV movie, “Death of a Cheerleader,” also known as “A Friend to Die For.” This remake stars Aubrey Peeples as Bridget, a reserved outcast who wants nothing more than to be friends with Kelly (Sarah Dugdale), a pretty, rich and popular classmate who rejects her. The blow drives a vengeful Bridget over the edge, but no one in her neighborhood suspects she is behind Kelly’s demise. Kellie Martin, who starred in the original alongside Tori Spelling, returns in the role of an F.B.I. agent. The 1994 movie is available to rent or stream on Amazon.Advertisement