AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiSandra Oh hosts “Saturday Night Live.” And the “Mamma Mia!” sequel makes its television debut on HBO.SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE 11:30 p.m. on NBC. Sandra Oh hosts “S.N.L.” for the first time, a week before “Killing Eve” returns for a second season. Oh nabbed a Golden Globe this year (How can we forget that acceptance speech?) for her role as a tenacious and unpredictable MI5 agent who becomes morbidly obsessed with an international assassin (Jodie Comer). The Australian psychedelic band Tame Impala, who made a triumphant return this week after four years without an album, brings its dreamy jams to the stage.MAMMA MIA! HERE WE GO AGAIN (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; Stream on HBO platforms. This sequel to the 2008 musical comedy couldn’t have possibly offered anything original. (It even recycles some songs used in the first movie, such as ”Dancing Queen” and “Waterloo.”) And  critics have mostly been O.K. with that. “Here We Go Again” picks up a year after Donna (Meryl Streep) passes. Her daughter Sophie (Amanda Seyfried) is about to reopen Donna’s hotel and the occasion calls for a reunion — and plenty of flashbacks. We learn how young Donna (Lily James) fell for Harry (Colin Firth), Bill (Stellan Skarsgard) and Sam (Pierce Brosnan) years ago, and hear some more Abba hits, including “My Love, My Life” and “I’ve Been Waiting for You.”THE 50TH N.A.A.C.P. IMAGE AWARDS 9 p.m. on TV One. Anthony Anderson returns to host this live annual awards show administered by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Netflix leads the television categories with 22 nominations, “Black Panther” has nominations in seven categories and Beyoncé and Chadwick Boseman are up for the entertainer of the year award.CHEF FLYNN (2018) Stream on Hulu; Rent on Amazon, Vudu or YouTube. By the time he was 10 years old, Flynn McGarry had a kitchen built in his bedroom. By 13, he was running a restaurant out of his mother’s home. Now, at 20, he runs one in New York City that has been named a Critic’s Pick by The New York Times critic Pete Wells. This documentary by Cameron Yates charts McGarry’s rise as a self-made high-end chef, seen through the eyes of his mother.SILENT LIGHT (2008) Stream on Mubi or Vudu. This slow-burn drama won the Jury Prize after debuting at the Cannes Film Festival in 2007. A decade later, The Times named it one of the best films of the 21st century so far. Directed by Carlos Reygadas, the movie follows Johan (Cornelio Wall), a husband and father in a Mennonite community in northern Mexico who is tormented by his affair with a neighbor (Maria Pankratz). He keeps little from his wife (Miriam Toews), and that honesty drives a wedge between them, no matter how intimate their shared life seems to be. Manohla Dargis wrote in her Times review, Reygadas “invites you into a world of grace and wonder so beautiful that it turns his film into a kind of prayer.”Advertisement