

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES

JAN. 10, 2019

“It’s good to be in something from the ground floor. I came too late for that, I know. But lately, I’m getting the feeling that I came in at the end.” —Tony SopranoYou’re wrong about that one, Tony. It may be that no TV show does anything entirely new — change always builds on change. But “The Sopranos” was as clear a marker of the beginning of an era (even if I hate the term “Golden Age”) as anything in TV.Before “The Sopranos,” yes, TV dramas could take risks (“Twin Peaks”) and tell stories about difficult people (“NYPD Blue”). But after the ducks landed in Tony’s backyard pool in January 1999, an immense flock followed. TV series, we saw, could rely on audiences to pay close attention to a long-running story. They could have high visual and narrative ambitions. They could resist quick answers (or any answers, in the case of the Russian from “Pine Barrens”) and tidy moral conclusions.If “The Sopranos,” which debuted 20 years ago this week, built the ground floor, this list looks at what TV erected on top of it. These are the 20 best drama series to emerge since “The Sopranos,” arranged in chronological order.For the sake of focus and sanity, Mike Hale, Margaret Lyons and I limited our debates to American series TV drama. What is American? (Shows made specifically for the United States TV market rather than acquired.) What is a series? (Shows that were meant to continue more than one season.) What is TV? (What isn’t, these days? Anything broadcast, cable or streaming was fair game.)Oh, yeah: What is “best”?  It’s not “most influential” (sometimes great art is inimitable) or “most widely praised” (a cop-out). Here, it’s the subjective, rough consensus of three humans, each with different tastes and priorities, after argument and bargaining. It ain’t science. The final judgment, while hopefully well-informed, is no more inherently right than yours.The trickiest question, though, was, What is a drama? Episode length isn’t an absolute guide, and awards nominations are no help. (“Orange Is the New Black,” say, has been Emmy nominated as both comedy and drama.)I’d like to say we came up with some bulletproof formula — length plus tears divided by jokes — but truth is, we went by feel. “Transparent,” by our lights, is clearly a drama, awards submissions notwithstanding; “30 Rock” is plainly not. The nebulous in-between zone is where some of the best TV is being made now, and that’s where some of our later picks come from (like “Atlanta,” which can be TV’s best drama or its best comedy any given week).If our resulting list stretches the definition of drama, good: “The Sopranos” certainly did. (It was the funniest show on TV most weeks it was on.) You’d swap out some shows here and there. (So would we, individually, and we wrote about some of our near-misses too.) But step back, and I think this list broadly tells the story of what American TV drama has become over two decades.Looking at this period historically, or geologically, I see three somewhat overlapping sub-eras. Concurrent with “The Sopranos,” a set of dramas took TV staples (the cop show, the western, the sci-fi saga), roughed them up and problematized them. Next, starting around “Mad Men” (from “Sopranos” alum Matthew Weiner), drama ventured into more varied subject matter (and a greater variety of outlets).Finally — the period we’re still in now — came the Great Diversification, not just of characters (Tony’s early followers were a lot of middle-aged white guys with agita) but formats, styles, voices and tones.What comes next? We were conscious (and maybe a little surprised) that only one streaming-TV series made this list. I’ve theorized before that just like in the early days of TV, comedy is more easily adaptable to new platforms, whereas drama is still figuring out how to mesh episodic TV with the endlessness of the binge. Very likely the next version of this list (which you’ll read in 10 or 20 years on your corneal implants) will reflect how the next wave of dramas evolved to master that format, and maybe others.“The Sopranos,” we all remember, ended with a cut to black. The genre that followed, though, takes its cue from the lyrics of Tony’s final jukebox selection, “Don’t Stop Believin’”: It goes on and on and on and on.James Poniewozik1999-2006Because they say joy cometh in the morning.“The West Wing” is one of the great loves of my life, a show I obsessed over before I became a TV critic, and maybe one of the reasons I did. I love Toby. I love Leo. I love Marion Coatsworth Hay. I love the little rocket ship gesture. This means something good has happened.People complain that it’s a smug fantasy. But I love a fantasy where everyone is smart, no one wants a forever war and integrity exists. I love a fantasy where characters have such a strong sense of purpose it rubs off on you just from watching them. My fantasy is that people are trustworthy, and that when they let me down, they notice and they’re sorry. Let’s all fantasize about having ethics — wouldn’t that be such a wild world? Keep your swords-and-magic epics. I’ve got the Bartlet administration to dream about.There are two “West Wing”s: Aaron Sorkin created and guided it for four seasons, and John Wells picked up and ran with it for three more. They both have their strengths. Sorkin’s has his signature aspirational patter dialogue, obsession with minutia and operatic sense of hope. Wells’s contains his momentum and narrative heft.The best part of “The West Wing” is that everything matters. Not just the decisions being made here on a genuinely global scale, but small stuff. Lying to a therapist, remembering dates correctly, the clink of an ice cube dropped from just the right height. Too much alliteration can cause genuine spiritual pain. One line in a budget bill can derail a whole career.That’s a fantasy too, I guess: a fantasy about caring, a fantasy that any one of us is important, not just the president, and not just the people who work for him. A census matters, a high school English teacher matters, the citizens of an imaginary country matter, a guy trying to pay for his daughter to go to college matters.The acting is extraordinary, the stories surprisingly timeless. And that’s all great, and the music and the sets and and and … But the beacon here is caring, because you’re my guys, and I’m yours, and there’s nothing I wouldn’t do for you.Now, what’s next?MARGARET LYONSStream on Netflix.2002-2008Because it defined the modern antihero cop.“The Shield” has a perfect pilot and a perfect finale. And everything in between is pretty great, too.Michael Chiklis stars as Vic Mackey, a vicious dirty cop — racist, sexist, violent, conceited and he never met a civil right he wasn’t interested in violating. Shawn Ryan didn’t invent the morally bankrupt cop archetype, certainly, but he managed to reinvent him in the modern antihero image, in ways that were often surprising not only in their depravity but in how they defined the narrative curve of the show. Vic kills a fellow cop right in the pilot, as clear an announcement as you’ll ever see on television of what a show plans to do and be.“The Shield” believes in a fallen world, where sinners and saints suffer alongside one another, and oh yeah, those aren’t saints — those are prostitutes who were asked to wear saint costumes and paid accordingly. Everything is grimy, every mirror is scratched. No one looks particularly good or well dressed. Los Angeles is a complicated place, where people from all over the world convene to disappoint one another, and “The Shield” thrived on that conflict and chaos.Lots of shows that seem to want to be “The Shield” revel in making their viewers miserable or appalled. And while awful things transpire on the show, and there are episodes that will haunt me all of my days, “The Shield” never jerks its audience around. That’s the part I wish its imitators would copy — not the brutality or policing plot lines, but the attention to story, the care, the structure. Each season has a true arc. Characters’ problems get worse. Choices have consequences and there’s no such thing as “going back to normal.”Shows with complicated heists or with double-crossing agents often lose themselves or lose track of the emotional momentum of the story. Not so here. There are few thrills as gratifying as a show with a great memory — a show that can really handle fan love and scrutiny. In its final episodes, “The Shield” forever locked in its spot on these kinds of lists when it brought every corrupt chicken home to roost. It’s masterly storytelling at its most gripping.MARGARET LYONSStream on FX Plus or Hulu.2002-2008Because, indeed.Michael K. Williams, who portrayed Omar Little:I went into “The Wire” like any newly budding actor: I was narcissistic. It was just about my career and how much screen time I had and blah, blah, blah.Season 2 came in, the story line shifted to the docks where there were white actors that told that story. That shook me a little bit. I didn’t expect that. I came out on the other side of that with gratitude to be a part of this. I saw how David Simon [the creator] masterfully came back in to Season 3 and it became bigger than just a hood story.It was never about that. It was a social story told on an American tapestry. Just happened to be in the hood.It wouldn’t just be people saying, “Oh, that’s some good hood [expletive] on TV.” It was the way that the community was responding to the story. It was truth telling. That’s when I realized that I’m a part of something way bigger than me or my career, and it made me really grateful to be just a small part in that wheel.I saw a lot of homophobia in my community. Omar definitely helped soften the blow of homophobia in my community and it opened up a dialogue, definitely. There’s been more of a tolerance for alternative lifestyles in the community than prior to “The Wire.” Kima Greggs [Sonja Sohn], Felicia Pearson. It wasn’t just Omar, man.[The essence of my character is in] the speech that he gave just before he pulled the trigger on Stringer Bell [Idris Elba]. String tries to offer him money for his life. Omar says, “You still don’t get it. It ain’t about your money, bro.” It’s about loyalty. His boy gave him up. You know what I’m saying? Money can’t buy loyalty, man.Omar had a code of ethics. You may not agree with his morals or his ideals, however, you could set your watch by him that he was not gonna break codes for anything or anybody, or no amount of money. It’s code.Man’s gotta have a code, right? — As told to Aisha Harris.Stream on HBO Go.2004-2009Because it reduced humanity to its essentials.Even in our current age of reboots, no show has surpassed its original incarnation as spectacularly as “Battlestar Galactica.” Ronald D. Moore and David Eick reimagined a mystical 1970s space opera as a dark and epic tale of survival that for several seasons was a seamless combination of large-scale action, close-quarters character drama and pop-political philosophy.The premise would have been provocative at any time: A bitter race of robots gets the drop on humanity (with the help of a human traitor) and nearly extincts us, killing all but about 50,000 survivors, who spend the series fleeing through space on a motley collection of ships led by the titular battleship. That the show came along at the height of the post-9/11 “war on terror” gave an extra resonance to its pervasive mood of existential dread, and made its depictions of religious fanaticism (on the part of the robots!), torture and massacre particularly topical.Moore and his writers moved their large ensemble from crisis to crisis with cinematic verve but also with careful attention to the emotional realities of relentless flight and battle. (They also neutralized basic-cable censors with the brilliant invention of the galactic epithet “frak.”) They lost some of their grip on the story in the final seasons, but their original creation took TV science fiction to places it had never gone before.MIKE HALE2004-2006Because it knew the border between civilization and savagery was porous, and patrolled by opportunists.Anna Gunn, who portrayed Martha Bullock:The obscenity-laden stuff seemed like it might be off the cuff, but it was really carefully crafted. Ian [McShane] used to say “You get one [expletive] in the wrong place, and you’re [expletive].”David [Milch, the creator] always said “This is the way they talked,” down to the obscenities. There was a formality to the language. As an actor, and then as a viewer, it transports you to that time quickly, and it shows you the kind of communication and wordplay that was going on at that time, which can feel like a lost art now with all of our ... We won’t go into that. But you know what I’m saying.I’ve done Shakespeare, so it was in my wheelhouse. But it is a different thing to be dealing with a mouthful of that kind of stuff on camera — rather than standing on stage and projecting it to 3,000 people — to make it tumble out and be as effortless as possible.As Martha, unfortunately, I did not get to indulge in the obscenity. She’s a woman of not as many words, but they are very carefully chosen. There was a scene in the Bullocks’ house, after Martha becomes aware that Seth [Timothy Olyphant] has been messing around with Alma [Molly Parker], and she’s very angry. And I’m going up the stairs and I say something like, “I repudiate you.”It was so formal. But what she’s saying is “[expletive] you.” — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on HBO Go.2004-2010Because at its best, it was the most fun you could have watching TV.Damon Lindelof, co-creator and co-showrunner:I’ve spent a disproportionate amount of time talking about the beginning of “Lost” — the pilot and first season — and then the final episode, an ending for which I still make no apologies. But I now have more perspective on the 119 hours that happened between those two poles.After the pilot, the thing that most people were saying, myself included, was, “How do you keep these people on an island, and make that interesting to watch?” The lesson is to keep running, and I give myself a little latitude for just finishing the marathon.As for my favorites, it’s a tie between the pilot, “The Constant” [from Season 4] and the Season 3 finale — right now, the Season 3 finale [which introduced the flash-forward concept, and revealed that the survivors make it off the island] is in the pole position. That was one of the most exciting things we ever did, and it was at a time when the show was starting to get written off as having its best days behind it.So that was like the moment in the “Rocky” movie where Rocky gets up, and you realize he’s still got some fight left in him. Just that idea that we were able to still pull off a satisfying emotional twist, with the shifting out of flashbacks and into flash-forwards. The line I hear quoted most at me is, “We have to go back!” It’s an indelible moment in the show, and it seems to have stuck. It definitely stuck with me.I get tickled when a show like “Manifest” comes along in 2018 and people describe it as, “It’s like ‘Lost.’” I was inspired by so many shows — “Twin Peaks,” “The X-Files,” “The Twilight Zone,” “The Prisoner” and a billion other things were in that stew as well. So the idea that “Lost” gets to be an ingredient in somebody else’s stew is immensely gratifying.The theory that continues to drive me bonkers is the idea that they were dead the whole time. That makes no sense to me because in the finale, as the characters all come together in this church before they move on to whatever their next life is, there are characters there who were not on the plane — Desmond and Penny, Benjamin Linus, Juliet. If they were dead the whole time, how would they have met characters who were not even on Oceanic 815?It definitely creates some brow furrowing. But I’ve decided that on my tombstone it will say: “Here lies Damon Lindelof. He was dead the whole time.” — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on Hulu.2004-2007Because tough and vulnerable never went together so well.Debuting on UPN a year after “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” left the air, “Veronica Mars” continued to prove that TV for a younger audience could be smart, sophisticated in its storytelling and emotionally complex. Its run was short, and its third and final season on CW, post merger, sagged a little. But while it lasted, it was a peerless blend of neo-noir mystery and teenage romantic drama, each addictive in its own right — a type of synthesis that’s frequently attempted and seldom perfected.And it was surprisingly clear-eyed and unsentimental for a show largely set among high school students. (The refusal of the show’s creator, Rob Thomas, to dumb things down might have contributed to its relatively low ratings.) The venality and viciousness of the upper-class Southern California beach crowd Veronica had been exiled from wasn’t just played for laughs. The fiercely loyal, codependent relationship between Veronica and her father, the struggling private investigator Keith Mars, had elements of desperation and sadness. Well before #MeToo, Veronica was revealed to have been drugged and raped at a party, an ungratuitous detail that helped explain her hard, sarcastic edge.That might make the show sound like a slog, but it was a joy. That had to do with how cleverly Thomas employed the conventions of California noir, and with the distinctive gallery of teenage characters he created. But it was mainly about the deft, soulful performances of Kristen Bell and Enrico Colantoni as Veronica and Keith, the damaged outsiders who shared a talent for sleuthing and a devotion to justice. Playing an obstinate 17-year-old coming of age while coping with the losses of her mother and her best friend, Bell was a testy heartbreaker.MIKE HALEStream on Amazon.2005-presentBecause we all need our “person.”More tears have been shed over “Grey’s Anatomy” than any other prime time drama. It’s been on longer than almost anything else, and it’s also embraced tragedy, plucked heartstrings and leaned hard into wrenching monologues. “Grey’s Anatomy” isn’t just one of the best dramas. It is also the most drama.Plane crashes. Ferry crashes. A crazed gunman. A train derailment. A sinkhole. Every disease you can imagine, and some you can’t. Everything anyone could get impaled on and then some. Storms upon storms. A penis fish. Grieving parents, frightened children, abuse survivors, traumatic births. But also sex and romance and love triangles, quadrangles and irregular polygons. “Grey’s Anatomy” elevates female friendship above all bonds and sees professional excellence as a baseline qualification. It understands grief.“Grey’s Anatomy” was the first Shonda Rhimes show, and it remains her best (as a creator or as an executive producer). And try as they might, no other contemporary doctor show comes close to the emotional depth or clever dialogue of early “Grey’s,” or to the sustained melodrama and potency of its current incarnation.Sometimes lead characters can be a little too perfect, but “Grey’s Anatomy” never had that problem: We buy from the get-go that Meredith (Ellen Pompeo) might occasionally feel less-than, and that her “dark and twisty” insides might keep her from the happiness she (everyone!) deserves. And then she — and the show, and the audience, and the world, sort of — evolved and endured. For many years, Meredith was not the most interesting character on the show that bears her name. But she is now, which is one reason the show feels viable and dynamic still, 15 seasons in.MARGARET LYONSStream on Netflix.2006-2011Because it had clear eyes and a full heart.As those of us who have evangelized for this show for years constantly tell people, “Friday Night Lights” is not really about high school football. It’s about Dillon, Tex.Dillon, Tex., in turn, is totally about high school football. Football is on the radio and in the yard signs and at the barbecues. Dillon reminisces about football of the past and dreams about football of the future. It comes together over football, and it falls apart over football.The way “F.N.L.” understood this — why a game can be so consuming to a working-class small town, how the need for hope can be both sustaining and dangerous — is what made it one of TV’s best dramas, not just about high school but about community.Community, in “F.N.L.,” can be a support and a burden. The players juggle game pressures with family pressures — absent parents, illness, money troubles. Coach Eric Taylor (Kyle Chandler) is celebrated when he wins, dogged and second-guessed when he loses. His wife, Tami (Connie Britton), a guidance counselor and principal, wrestles with a system that would rather invest in a Jumbotron than teachers. (Their gently sparring partnership, at home and school, should be mandatory pre-marriage-counseling viewing.)In the fourth season, Eric and Tami relocate to East Dillon High School — a poor, largely African-American school across town — and “F.N.L.” becomes the rare high school show to actually get better as it ages, becoming as much a story of the chasms of opportunity as more overtly issues-minded stories like “The Wire.”Of course, there’s football, too, with hard hits and sidelines drama and more than the statistically likely percentage of games decided on the last play. But the most memorable moments are Coach Taylor’s locker-room speeches, which bring it back to honor, faith and the family watching from the stands: “Those are the people I want in your minds. Those are the people I want in your hearts.”This is a football story that cares as much about the spectators as the players, because it knows that none of them got where they are by themselves.JAMES PONIEWOZIKStream on NBC.com, Amazon or Hulu.2007-2015Because the sleekest surfaces can mask the deepest wounds.Matthew Weiner, creator:I wrote the pilot of “Mad Men” before I started as a writer on “The Sopranos,” so there’s seven years between the pilot and writing the second episode of “Mad Men.” Whatever I had intended the show to be when I wrote that pilot was very different after seeing how seriously David Chase took human behavior. Real human behavior.So instead of having a potboiler with people stealing each other’s folders and trying to get each other fired, and that sort of office intrigue — not that “Mad Men” didn’t have any of that — you have Peggy [Elisabeth Moss] with a psychic scar for the entire show, after giving away that baby. That’s the kind of thing that would have never occurred to me before I was on “The Sopranos.”It wasn’t like I didn’t have those thoughts or feelings. I just didn’t know the audience would respond to it.There’s nothing allegorical in “Mad Men,” as far as I’m concerned. No one writes with those things in mind. I don’t believe it, if they say they do. Literally you’re like, “I want a story, this is what happens, this is what it means, these are the repercussions, this is the scene of aftermath, this is the feeling it’s about for these people.”Of course I was into the aesthetics. But half of what the show was about was to say, “These people have the same problems we have right now.” Don [Jon Hamm] is not part of the Rat Pack. These are not the ring-a-ding years. They’re a bunch of veterans, and they are walking around a little haunted. And the women are dissatisfied, and they’re facing horrible consequences in the workplace. Everything was supposed to be an irony between the way it’s been portrayed in movies and advertising, versus the way it really was.Which still exists. Instagram is basically you creating an ad for yourself to make your life look better, and everyone assumes that no one else has any problems. That’s what advertising is.“Maidenform,” in the second season, is the first episode of the show where I was like, “This cannot be done on any other show.” Because it’s so psychological and it’s about an idea, which is, “How am I perceived by other people?”It’s thematically hammered over and over — in the ad campaign, in Don and Bobbie Barrett’s [Melinda McGraw] relationship, Don versus Sally [Kiernan Shipka], Betty [January Jones] in the bathing suit. At the time, I was like, “Is anybody going to understand this?” Because we’re telling a story here that probably looks like something about Don’s busted romance, and conflict in the office, and Peggy trying to get ahead. But what it really is, is “I look in the mirror and I don’t like what I see. What do other people see?” And that’s because I’ve created this false self.Just that sentence that I gave you right there — I would have never thought that was the subject of a TV show if I hadn’t sat in a room with David Chase for four years. Even though it is the substance of our lives. — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on Netflix.2008-2013Because on some level, we all want to be the one who knocks.Anna Gunn, who portrayed Skyler White:Every character broke bad in their own way.Skyler’s ability to lie, to don the persona of the ditzy accountant to get what she wanted — she’s really good at it. As the show goes along, everybody has those kinds of things revealed. It’s always in moments of crisis that human beings show their true character.In the beginning, Vince [Gilligan, the creator] told me “I see her as Carmela Soprano, but in on the crime.” He was going to have her take a similar path to Walt [Bryan Cranston], in that she would become her own Heisenberg. She did in some ways but she didn’t fully, and that was really smart to keep her on her own trajectory. She continued to catch herself and go “Wait, what? No, no, no. This is not who I want to be.”Skyler was pilloried as the nagging wife — there was this runaway train of Skyler hatred. It was kind of freaking Vince out and it was freaking me out, too. I wrote about it [in The Times] and went through that whole thing.I get it: She’s the bummer. She’s bringing a crashing dose of reality to that kingpin trajectory. The show was constructed in such a way that your sympathies lie with Walt, as a viewer. What was surprising is that when he continued along that path and did truly awful things, people were still going “Yeah all right! He’s the man!”I don’t know. Obviously there’s a deep sexism there, and dare I say misogyny with it. Because if Skyler had been a male character, it would have been perceived differently.But it’s shaken out so that people — women and men — come up to me all the time now and tell me how much that character meant to them, or that she got them through something in their life. I think there’s much more awareness, in our current climate, about how women are seen and what women have been battling. It’s something that was not particularly examined at the time, but now people are looking at it much more honestly, and that’s great to see.The first time we saw a screening of the “Breaking Bad” pilot, as a group, we sat in a stunned silence for a second afterward, thinking “This is extraordinary.” But you still wonder: It’s so out there, are people going to connect to it? Is it actually going to see the light of day? And then it did. — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on Netflix.2009-2016Because it turned a victim cliché into a treatise on power.Michelle and Robert King, creators:Male creators and critics, especially, can sometimes confuse violence or dark subject matter with importance. Some of the purple dialogue in “True Detective” felt like white suburban boys pretending to have some real darkness.On “The Good Wife,” there was very rarely any violence. We didn’t do any of those CBS things of showing people being killed and slaughtered. The battle was more in words, and that feels more like the violence we see these days. It’s more connected to reality.“The Good Wife” was about soft power — the use of power that is not announcing itself as power. I think Alicia [Julianna Margulies] got really distraught about power and how she utilized it over the seven seasons, and I think by the end she needed a rebirth of some kind. She probably went on to be involved in the MeToo movement, and on the front lines of the political resistance.When we were starting the series, all of these wives were forced to stand by their misbehaving men. Then as the show took off, they kind of stopped needing to do that — by turning a TV spotlight on it, we pointed out what a cliché it was. If the show has a positive legacy, it’s probably that we helped women not have to stand by their scandalized husbands. (edited from a joint interview with Jeremy Egner) Stream on Hulu.2010-2018Because it made magic.You might well ask, why put a cartoon on a best drama list? I would answer, why not? If Pendleton Ward’s sprawling, postapocalyptic saga were live-action, rather than gorgeously rendered animation, it would be classified with “Lost,” “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” and other dramas that balance fantastical story lines with humor and bursting heart. That it did so in kaleidoscopic, 11-minute episodes for audiences of all ages is a credit, not a demerit.The story of Finn, a foundling in the magical and once-devastated Land of Ooo, “Adventure Time” evolved from a whimsical action-adventure into a sprawling story of abandoned children, surrogate families and self-discovery. It grew up as its protagonist did, teaching its viewers that while the battle of good against evil can be thrilling, it’s rarely simple. It had the vast, well-imagined cast of a saga like “Game of Thrones,” along with a stunning visual language and a through sense of empathy.If you still need convincing, let me direct you to the Season 4 episode “I Remember You,” which begins to reveal the back story of the series’ original mad villain, the Ice King. Once a mild-mannered human named Simon, he saved a young girl (now Marceline, the goth-punk vampire) by embracing a magic that took his sanity and memory. As Marceline pieces together the story and he grasps at the fragments of his past — a story with familiar echoes to anyone who’s seen a loved one fall to dementia — the episode’s 11 minutes build to an emotional climax, a villainous character reframed and given depth on the spot.Surreal, wise and often heartbreaking, “Adventure Time” may look like kids’ stuff. (It is, in fact, outstanding kids’ stuff.) But under its confectionery surface lies the material of great drama. It’s a wonderland of broken, misfit toys learning to fix one another.JAMES PONIEWOZIKStream on Hulu.2011-2013Because it knew that being good is hard work.Many of the post-“Sopranos” dramas listed here attempted to understand evil (“The Shield”) or people sliding toward evil (“Breaking Bad”) or the moral conflicts of people engaged in evil deeds (“The Americans”). This entire era of drama, in a way, was a response to an earlier era of TV in which moral issues were simple, clear and settled in an hour with commercials.“Enlightened,” in its 18 half hours, stood apart by engaging with what it means to be good, and the difficulty of getting there.We meet Amy Jellicoe (Laura Dern), a low-level office worker for a slickly exploitative megacorporation, on the rebound from a nervous breakdown. She’s embraced the language of conscience and consciousness, but she’s still racked with resentment and envy. She wants to change the world but do well for herself in the process, and, at first, she uses her do-gooderism passive-aggressively, as a cudgel.But that’s life; that’s morality. The urge to do right doesn’t just drop from heaven. It can come from ego and regret and anger as much as from altruism and self-denial. If the world is to get better, it has to come through the fumbling efforts of those of us, who, like Amy, are no bodhisattvas.Poetic, meditative and generous, the series manages in its short span to delve into the inner lives of Amy’s recovering-addict ex, Levi (Luke Wilson), her awkward co-worker Tyler (Mike White, who created the series with Dern), and her disappointed mother, Helen (Dern’s real-life mother, Diane Ladd).“Enlightened” has elements of cringe humor, but it takes Amy seriously. Her feelings are chaotic, and sometimes naïve. But they’re real, and over two seasons, she gets closer to becoming the person she fantasizes about being, blowing the whistle on her company’s shady practices and accepting that there are causes larger than herself. In its finale, facing the aftermath of having exposed her employer, Amy asks Levi a question that’s hung over the series, “Am I crazy?”No, he says, “You’re just full of hope. You’ve got more hope than most people do.”JAMES PONIEWOZIKStream on HBO Go.2013-2018Because it made even the unsexy (read: realistic) details of espionage — and marriage — thrilling.Alison Wright, who played Martha:At an early table read, Joe Weisberg came up and told me that they plan to have Martha marry the man she knew as Clark [Matthew Rhys], and that it was based on real relationships these women had. These secretaries, they would get married and sometimes have children, and these relationships might last years and years before the deception was ever revealed.So I figured [my job would] be safe for a little while, if I married the guy.Personally, I see my friends in situations every day where I say, “How can she not see what’s going on here?” We all have denial and blind spots about loads of things, especially when it comes to our love lives. Joe and Joel Fields [the showrunners] did a great job of writing a complicated woman, and they obviously made it believable at some point. It felt like most people were eventually on her side.She was an innocent, but she still did naughty things. She stole a lot of information and she could have cost people their lives. She just did it for love. Maybe because her intentions were not nefarious, we give her a little forgiveness.When they told me Martha was going to be sent to the Soviet Union, I was horrified. And Joe was like, “What are you talking about? She’s still alive.” But I think that’s a fate worse than death. How painful that would be to survive everything she’s gone through, and do it in a place like that. In a time like that. I thought it was a death sentence for her soul.I like to imagine that somehow she met up with Anton Baklanov [Michael Aronov]. Remember him? The physicist who was kidnapped? I always thought he and Martha would make a great couple. Sitting depressed together.But if she saw Clark in Moscow, I’d like to think she would stop and stare at him for a little while, and turn around and walk the other way. Especially since he’d probably be there with his wife. — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on FX Plus.2013-2016Because it understood patience.Watching “Rectify” will turn your soul into a pensive cello song, and your hands into those of an aged person mourning their youth. You’ll discover an old handkerchief in the back of a drawer, behold it briefly in the dusty sunlight, then collapse onto the corner of the bed, weeping at the fragility of all human life — how fallible and wonderful it all is, how damaged and dark.But it’s worth it, because “Rectify” isn’t like any other show. Unlike lots of thematically dark shows, it’s visually bright and sunshine-y, with a humidity that borders on fecundity. Its slowness is ethereal — Season 1 takes place over just six days — but its plot does move forward, more than some other more traditionally paced dramas out there.The criminally underseen series, created by Ray McKinnon, stars Aden Young as Daniel Holden, who was wrongly convicted as a teenager of raping and murdering his girlfriend. He spent 19 years on Georgia’s death row before being released on a technicality. He was raped and tortured in prison, robbed of his dignity. Freedom doesn’t undo that damage. If anything, it brings it into starker relief.As with all human tragedy, Daniel’s story isn’t only his. His siblings and stepsiblings have spun into individualized realms of dysfunction, and sometimes it feels like the entire small town where they live has a raw and unresolved central wound.“Rectify” puts its characters under a powerful but loving microscope, and we get to see their full humanity, from the way they say or don’t say “I love you” to the way they impatiently and loudly chug water. This meticulous, miraculous sense of specificity is sharp and dense enough to cast a powerful shadow, and the bigger tale becomes one about what fills in society in the absence of justice.MARGARET LYONSStream on Netflix.2014-2017Because it pondered the big questions without feeling ponderous.Damon Lindelof, creator:Kevin had an existential crisis: How do I fit in the grand scheme of a post-departure world? But he didn’t really lose anything palpable.Nora is the one who lost everything. She lost her cheating husband and her two children, so she’s moving through her life sort of wondering, “What did I do to deserve this?” And then like, “This was just a random happenstance.” Bouncing her between “There’s nothing to be done” and “I have to do something” was an incredibly difficult thing to pull off as storytellers, and an even more difficult thing for Carrie Coon to pull off as an actor.We got into the third season of the show, and it became very obvious to us that the finale was going to be largely Nora-driven. Kevin was going to be in it, but it was her story. I don’t know if that means that the series writ large was her story, but it just felt like that was the only way to end it with some degree of satisfaction.The idea of her putting herself into some sort of self-imposed exile — that is the classic hero’s journey. Every Rambo movie is Rambo at some Thai monastery, and then the United States government has to track him down and say, “We need you to do one more job, John.”We were kind of like, “What’s the emotional version of that?” One question the show was always asking was, “How can you emotionally invest in anyone, if you think that they could just slip out of existence in a second?”Obviously that’s something we contend with in a nondeparture world, because people die. But that feeling of, “I now have an excuse to not emotionally connect to anyone” gets magnified in a world where 2 percent of the world’s population just slipped out.Showrunners do have favorite episodes, they just won’t admit it. I’m very partial to the first “International Assassin” episode.We started with a version that was very trippy and Kubrickian, and a little obtuse. It was feeling super self-serious and not fun to watch. The only thing that survived that version was the manifestation of Patti as a little girl. Then it was like: Oh, Kevin’s got to kill that little girl in order to get rid of the adult Patti.That’s a good challenge for him, but the world and its rules were so artsy fartsy. We just couldn’t get invested in it.So we were in the writers’ room and someone said, “I wish it was just like ’Three Days of the Condor,’ and someone told him he had to assassinate Senator Patti Levin.” And everybody laughed. Then there was a five-second moment where everyone was looking at each other like, “Wait a minute, can we do that? What does that look like?” And then we were off to the races. — As told to Jeremy Egner.Stream on HBO Go.2014-presentBecause it redefined what a TV family could be.Jill Soloway, creator:We’re working on the finale so I’m asking this question of, “What does it need to wrap up this story?” A few things have always been present. One is this big question: Will you still love me if ... ? And this question that people and families ask each other: “Will you still love me if I come out? Will you still love me if I’m an alcoholic? Will you still love me if I have an affair? Will you still love me if I set a boundary?”I think the action of this family, for me, has always been this idea [that] the secret is the boundary. Now that the secret is gone, where do you start, where do I end?In the pilot they think Maura is giving them the house. They showed up at that barbecue dinner in the pilot to say “We want our inheritance.” But it turns out their inheritance is one of queerness, and trans-ness.When I’m really old and I’m in a nursing home and I feel lonely I think I’m just going to watch the whole series on repeat over and over again and say “Aah, these are my people, this is my family, these are my friends.” They feel so real to me. When I watch it, it feels like I’m dipping into a movie version of a photo album of a family and I know I’m loved.Things that I really loved about “The Sopranos” were the kitchen scenes and the way family life was portrayed on that show, these beautiful little family moments. They would take something like a horrific mafia murder and put it right next to a really banal conversation about red sauce pasta. We do the same thing in “Transparent,” but it’s the Holocaust and a conversation about a bagel.That’s one of the things I got from David Chase: The proximity of great tragedy and great food. — As told to Aisha Harris.Stream on Amazon.2014-presentBecause its loving sendup of telenovelas paired shocking plot twists with political bite.Jennie Snyder Urman, creator:I really think of it as a true hybrid. We make sure that every episode has comic set pieces, but the big beating heart underneath the show is dramatic. I think our seasons really take shape around the more dramatic elements of the show.The greatest pain comes with a lot of laughter and vice versa.Jane, Xiomara and Alba — that’s 100 percent the central relationship that we’re tracking and that I think changes and evolves the most. Who Jane’s going to end up with is certainly a central thread and central to the genre and central to romance, the telenovela and all of that. But the central love story in the show is the three women.They are the heart of the show. That really became clear to me in the second episode, when Jane was unpacking the trauma of the accidental insemination with her mom and grandmother on the porch swing. That is the thing we have to always come back to. That porch swing, that relationship and the way that they support each other, love each other, disagree with each other, fight with each other, but ultimately have each other’s backs always.We’re like, “O.K., it’s a porch swing moment.” We go to that a lot in the writers’ room.I hope the legacy of  “Jane” is how it shows that people who want to be good can be interesting, too; as a show that introduced the world to Gina Rodriguez, who I think is such a gift in so many ways; and a love letter to telenovelas, ultimately.I hope also that it’s remembered for the way that it makes political statements in a very personal way, and that hopefully it has increased empathy and compassion and helped push us forward, helped give a little bit of light in this darker time. — As told to Aisha Harris.Stream on CW.com or Netflix.2016-presentBecause it pushes TV’s boundaries through keen observation and inventive absurdism.Zazie Beetz, who plays Vanessa:I definitely think of it as a drama; it’s how I approach it. I found it interesting that it was billed as a comedy, initially. There is a lot more tonal nuance to the show than I think what we associate with sitcoms or the general definition of comedy. And I find when I watch the show on my own, I don’t laugh that much.Thinking back to when we were shooting last season, I think it was [Season 2, Episode 3], when I am coming home and we’re looking through the mail. And I am talking about where we end up going out later that episode. It’s kind of a funny scene.We were improvising and I started saying, “Ugh, I’m not going to be able to come up with anything funny right now.” And [the director] Hiro [Murai] said, “Don’t be funny, just be truthful” —  which is a general rule for improvising, but I think it was just another reminder: The show doesn’t have to land jokes, it just has to land truth.People have been raised to generally associate black TV shows with comedy. And because our show is being advertised as a comedy, it might not have the same commercial weight as being evaluated as a dramatic performance.But it is both. Life is both, and I think that “Atlanta” is trying to capture elements of both of those things. — As told to Aisha Harris.Stream on FX Plus or Hulu.2014-2017“Computers aren’t the thing,” says the tech executive Joe MacMillan (Lee Pace). “They’re the thing that gets us to the thing.” This AMC drama spanned the personal-computer revolution of the early ’80s to the dawning of the web in the early ’90s, the period in which people found that what they thought of as office hardware was in fact the printing press of a new culture.“Halt” was one of TV’s best stories about work, the medium through which its characters communicate, fall apart and come together again. In particular, the turbulent collaboration between genius programmer Cameron Howe (Mackenzie Davis) and venture capitalist Donna Clark (Kerry Bishé) was a platonic romance. This wasn’t a story of big hits and mega-riches; in fact, the characters kept moving from one failed project to the next. But “Halt” found life in that movement, the unstoppable, optimistic drive to scroll on to the next page.Would swap out: “The West Wing” Look, I’m not made of stone; despite its occasional soapboxiness, I loved this show’s romance with public service. But despite arriving several months after “The Sopranos,” it feels like an artifact of a previous era, when TV sought to simplify the complexities of life and morality rather than vice versa.JAMES PONIEWOZIK2016-presentI’d never seen anything like “Queen Sugar” on TV before. A slow-burner centered on multiple generations of a black southern family tied together by the looming legacy (and tenuous future) of the recently departed patriarch’s sugarcane farm, the series expertly walks the line between high art and sudsy melodrama. Is every actor on this show impossibly gorgeous, their brown skin lit to perfection in every scene? Sure — but it also remains a crime that Rutina Wesley, Dawn-Lyen Gardner and Kofi Siriboe have yet to receive Emmy nominations for their poignant performances as the Bordelon siblings.“Queen Sugar” has unraveled a sprawling narrative as vast as its luminously shot rural Louisiana landscapes and woven in an array of relevant cultural topics, including black disenfranchisement and mass incarceration. Yet the attention to detail in the characterization and interpersonal relationships has never been lost — these stories, these people, ring true.Would swap out: “Mad Men” I admire the series, but midway through its run, I grew frustrated and bored with Don Draper’s neuroses and terrible behavior, which didn’t seem to evolve much beyond his respect for Peggy Olson.AISHA HARRIS, ASSISTANT TV EDITOR2010-2015Based on an Elmore Leonard short story, “Fire in the Hole,” “Justified” was a clever and literate crime drama, a pungent celebration of regional folkways and humor and a showcase for one of the most talented, idiosyncratic acting ensembles TV has offered. Timothy Olyphant and Walton Goggins starred as a deputy U.S. marshal in Kentucky and his one-time best friend, now a rural crime kingpin, and their supporting cast included Nick Searcy, Natalie Zea, Joelle Carter, Damon Herriman, Jere Burns, Stephen Root and Margo Martindale, to name a few.Would swap out: “Rectify” or “The Leftovers” I’ll take the pure pleasure of “Justified” over the feel-bad profundity of those shows anytime.MIKE HALE2009-2013“Southland” is the only worthy heir to “The Shield,” but it has so much more light in it, so much more texture. It’s extraordinary, and even though I think “The Shield” is probably a better show, “Southland” is my favorite cop show of the modern era.I also would have added “Wonderfalls,” a teeny-tiny show from 2004 that has only 13 episodes — they didn’t even air them all when the show was briefly on Fox. But those of us who caught it then and bought the DVDs later know it to be enchanting and perceptive. Jaye is a frustrated young woman with a failure to launch, toiling away at a Niagara Falls gift shop when a little lion tchotchke suddenly starts talking to her. Is she going crazy, or is this something supernatural? Does it even matter, if she’s finally finding some sense of purpose? This was Bryan Fuller’s precursor to the also superb “Pushing Daisies,” which I adore almost as much.Would swap out: “Atlanta” Because it’s a comedy! It’s an astounding comedy, and it would be on my 20 best comedies list in a heartbeat.MARGARET LYONS2011-presentI suspect plenty of people scrolled or swiped through this list with increasing agitation, wondering how a team of TV watching professionals could pass over a show that is not only a three-time Emmy winner for best drama, not only the most obsessively tracked story on the planet, but is inarguably the single most ambitious endeavor in the history of the medium.To those readers I can only say: I totally agree.Even as “Game of Thrones” has piled up more Emmys than any other drama ever, the knock has been that it’s not the best show on television, it’s the most show on television. Fine. But its reputation for spectacle, sexposition and shocking twists overshadows the excellence of its storytelling, which has woven roughly 400 compelling subplots (and a few that were less so) into a grimy allegory about the world-shattering wages of unchecked ambition and cycles of vengeance. All of it presented at a scale and with a technical virtuosity that demolished the previous parameters of television like a zombie dragon laying waste to an ice wall.Would swap out: “The West Wing” While I admire its craft and idealism, scorching straw men with stagy oratory does not a defining drama make.JEREMY EGNER, TV EDITORProduced by Alicia DeSantis, Gabriel Gianordoli and Josephine Sedgwick.Animations by Pedro Piccinini.Portrait illustrations by Tim McDonagh.Video credits: NBC (“The West Wing”), FX (“The Shield”), HBO (“The Wire”), Sci-Fi (“Battlestar Galactica”), HBO (“Deadwood”), ABC (“Lost”), UPN (“Veronica Mars”), ABC (“Grey’s Anatomy”), NBC (“Friday Night Lights”), AMC (“Mad Men”), AMC (“Breaking Bad”), CBS (“The Good Wife”), Cartoon Network (“Adventure Time”), HBO (“Enlightened”), FX (“The Americans”), Sundance TV (“Rectify”), HBO (“The Leftovers”), Amazon Video (“Transparent”), CW Television Network (“Jane the Virgin”), FX (“Atlanta”).Photo credits: James Minchin III (“Halt and Catch Fire”), Skip Bolen/OWN (“Queen Sugar”), Prashant Gupta/FX (“Justified”), Doug Hyun/TNT (“Southland”), Helen Sloan/HBO (“Game of Thrones”).Advertisement