AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiWatch the new revival of “Roswell” on CW as the reboots keep on comin’. Or catch the Season 2 premiere of “Corporate” on Comedy Central.ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO 9 p.m. on CW.  This sci-fi series based on the young adult book series “Roswell High” gets a revival 20 years after its debut. Jeanine Mason (“Grey’s Anatomy”) stars as Liz, a native of Roswell, N.M., who returns home 10 years after leaving and discovers that her old crush, Max (Nathan Dean Parsons), has supernatural powers — and he’s not the only alien around. The show sticks to the original’s main plot points, but retells them in the context of today’s politics.AMERICAN EXPERIENCE: THE SWAMP 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Not far from Miami lies Everglades National Park, a 1.5 million-acre wetland that is home to the American crocodile and the Florida panther. Today it is guarded as a mesmerizing tropical ecosystem, but more than a century ago entrepreneurs and politicians saw it as a useless swamp ripe for development. This documentary, loosely based on a book by the journalist Michael Grunwald, charts the disastrous consequences of repeated attempts to drain the Everglades and the work that led to President Franklin D. Roosevelt authorizing the park’s creation in 1934.DRUNK HISTORY 10 p.m. on Comedy Central. Season 6 begins with a parody of the children’s horror series “Are You Afraid of the Dark?” in which an inebriated Rich Fulcher tells the “Frankenstein” origin story around a campfire. Evan Rachel Wood plays Mary Shelley, Elijah Wood portrays Mary’s husband, Percy, and Seth Rogen assumes the role of Victor Frankenstein.CORPORATE 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. The New York Times’s television critics named this dark workplace comedy series one of the best new shows of 2018. Margaret Lyons wrote: “‘Corporate’ is as nihilistic as they come, so bleak it often becomes absurd and even supernatural.” In this Season 2 opener, Matt (Matt Ingebretson) suppresses a potential crush on a new co-worker, and his ruthless boss (Lance Reddick) makes an acquisition.REVENGER (2018) stream on Netflix. A former detective (Bruce Khan) goes undercover as a death-row convict to infiltrate a remote prison island and avenge his family’s murder in this South Korean action flick.THE SNAPPER (1993) stream on Hulu; rent on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Sharon (Tina Kellegher), a young checkout clerk from the Dublin suburbs, catches her tight-knit family off guard when she announces she is pregnant after a drunken night out. The blow isn’t just that she is expecting — it’s that she can’t remember who the father is (or so she claims). Her friends and family, led by the ill-tempered patriarch Dessie (Colm Meaney), support her nonetheless but are thrown another fastball with rumors that the mystery man is a married neighbor and father of one of Sharon’s friends. Writing in The Times, Vincent Canby called the comedy a “small, joyful lark of a film.”Advertisement