AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiDaniel Radcliffe sets out to save humankind in the final episode of “Miracle Workers.” And the first season of the “Temptation Island” reboot comes to a close.MIRACLE WORKERS 10:30 p.m. on TBS. Consider this limited comedy series a truncated, less thought out version of “The Good Place.” The show is set in some bureaucratic iteration of the afterlife where very imperfect beings run things, and sparks fly between two unassuming humans. Steve Buscemi stars as a fed-up God who announces he’s going to blow up the earth and end its troubles for good. Over seven episodes, two angels, Craig (Daniel Radcliffe) and Eliza (Geraldine Viswanathan), try to stop him by answering the prayers of two 20-somethings looking for love. (While in “The Good Place,” the universe is constantly working against Eleanor and Chidi’s inevitable romance, the humans in “Miracle Workers” are spoiled with divine intervention.) The show comes to a close with “1 Hour,” in which a desperate Craig gives his all to save humankind.TEMPTATION ISLAND 10 p.m. on USA. This dating show from the early 2000s found a second life in the reboot mania that is today’s television landscape. The first season of the revival, set in Maui, Hawaii, ends with a reunion where four couples decide on the next steps of their relationships. The series has been renewed for a second season, and Mark L. Wahlberg, who created the original, will stay on as host.NICK AND NORAH’S INFINITE PLAYLIST (2008) Stream on Netflix; Rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube.  At 30, Michael Cera may have outgrown some of the roles that defined him, such as the awkward slacker in “Superbad” or the sweet boyfriend in “Juno.” As the sulking musician in “Nick and Norah’s Infinite Playlist,” he plays a New Jersey high school student recently dumped by his girlfriend (Alex Dziena). Still hurting from the breakup, he reluctantly heads to Manhattan to play a show and meets Norah (Kat Dennings), who instantly catches his eye. They spend the night searching for their favorite indie band’s concert, but their friends and former lovers keep getting in the way. The movie, A. O. Scott wrote in his New York Times review, is “like Martin Scorsese’s ‘After Hours’ filtered through the high school sensibility of John Hughes, or Richard Linklater’s ‘Before Sunrise’ remade for Nickelodeon.” Cera also appears this month alongside Julianne Moore in “Gloria Bell” and reprises his role as George-Michael Bluth in new episodes of “Arrested Development.”NATE BARGATZE: THE TENNESSEE KID (2019) Stream on Netflix. The Nashville-based comedian Nate Bargatze made his Netflix debut in the first season of “The Standups,” a set of six half-hour specials by emerging comics. Now he’s flying solo. (Before reaching Netflix fame, Bargatze made several appearances on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” and performed with Fallon on the late-night host’s “Clean Cut Comedy Tour.”) Here, he recalls being mistaken for an elderly woman and the time he disappointed his father, who is a magician, during a trick.Advertisement