rock pop dance classic hits now: In Between Days by The Cure on  
I love dancing and the only only person I wish would dance with me wont even try. So frustrating lmaoooo.
" I'm fully behind the climate protests, but ""interpretive dance"", really ?"
 Pull tf up lets dance
"Classes Weekend 
| Dance &gt;&gt; A Creative Dance Session (Kendal) | Yoga &gt;&gt; Gentle Yoga &amp; Mindfulness Training (Fav "
We can dance until we die...
If this child isnt in dance class or performing arts school where they can nurture these talents... 
lol we reach the dance 3am lmao
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock I Know Where It's At by All Saints on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino How Can I Help You Say Goodbye by Patty Loveless on 
"Known for her dance in the famous DilbarDilbar item song, NoraFatehi is reportedly coming to Pakistan to shoot an "
Watch Taeyeon Perfectly Nail Every Dance Routine From PUBG via  
TS Galaxy coach Dan 'Dance' Malesela insists his side will stick to their possession football brand of playing in S 
" I just wake up because it's 10 am, I brushed my teeth and cleaned my face, I am happily resting in my bed "
"Photoessay: The dolphins of Drake Bay

MintLounge 

 "
"Boy with love cover dance 
BoyWithLuv BTS   
"
lets have an alcoholic beverage and dance around the house in my underwear fo today
" + something. Nobody wanted to flaunt that on the world's stage. 

""Much obliged."" A faded cajun accen "
NowPlaying Franky Rizardo - Rave Machine on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
Having your headphones on full volume listening to your favorite dance songs while dancing alone in your room is fucking therapy
"The heat is making me do things - namely, bake and dance to Beyonce.

"
close your eyes dance with me
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Ex-Factor by Lauryn Hill on  
 Not you wei you dont know how to dance
   When I watched Mike do the  DICK~DANCE on Ellen Show the word HERMAPH 
"""I can't dance without Lisa""

Jenlisa
"
"Finally After long wait  looking cute  n hot in kanchana3 i can't take my eyes away from u 

 Vera l "
boy with luv dance practice please come through
The Prodigy - No Good (Start The Dance)
"So I created my own Fortnite Lobby Music..!! (Default Dance, Smooth Moves)  va  "
   Imagine how good it would be for Zambia if we lost EL and HH. Then both 
COME BACK HOME / 2NE1RAYZA Dance Practice 
"I do not want to believe that this isn't sarcastic. 
This must be a Y2K assertion and unfortunately it is not anywh "
"much to think about, dionysus choreo was made by WDC's champion, The Lab. So in conclusion, if the choreo kind of i "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: In Between Days by The Cure on  
"Check out our very own Oscar Holland who was interviewed on Radio Cornwall this morning! 
A rising star coming from "
So Smart Precious Love Be Kind Dance Sing Hi Dream
   USES ALMOST THE SAME DANCE STEPS..  keeps laying on the floor.. germs..
   can you please learn to dance like this ? :-)
"Baraat essential No. 3 - The Groom! 
.
.
.
.
.
Wedding planned by the amazing 
.
.
.
.
.
baraat "
"donnasummer
This Week in 1976 ""Could it be Magic"" by Donna Summer enters the US R&amp;B Soul Charts. This Superb Disco "
The dance off that saved the galaxy
" Imagine protesting climate change on a small island, that already does its best, when the government of tha "
"when I dance, I do the robot of course"
Young boys of today dress like Beyonc and mimic her dance routines in front of a mirror. You're annoying them gran 
Stop using your animal as a prop and just tell us that you cant dance. 
NowPlaying on  - Ben Sterling - Dance Machine (Original Mix) EDM RadioShow onair  20/04/2019 09:18:15
"!! MUST WATCH !! 

BLANKPINK - KILL THIS LOVE MOVING DANCE COVER 

"
Dance with me BUT dont dance on me
 A dance of beauty from Yanick Paquette &amp; a testament to the more charming aspects of Tom King's run. 
"We're live on location. Set up is ready. We're about to rock this Ruracio.
Provision of MC, PA, DJ, Lighting and lo "
"AAHHHHHHH ACS KILL THIS LOVE DANCE COVER IS 

"
 Enden what must we dance to?
"NEXT BIG SATURDAY NIGHT PARTY IN KENT 
Saturday 27th April at Rochester Dance Junction
(kents premier dance venue "
lol she has to be on one
POPPING NAC  |  MINDTRIX _ FLOAT |  DUBSTEP (FREESTYLE DANCE)  lewat 
Carlos suggests doing a dance and cycling 10 km..
"""YEAH CUNTS FUCKEN DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAST"" - Ros, probably"
"Kim taehyung can sing, dance, acting, rap, produce music, and now he can do magic? quick name one thing this man ca "
"Our new feature on Facebook is going down a storm! Its called:
Its a Saturday Dance Heres Chloe - if you like "
So... dance lessons
"Andrea Oliva, Danny Howard, Mason Maynard, Monki and Prospa  The Rave Lounge  Part 3 2019-04-19 house dance "
does anyone have a wii so i can ball out on some just dance
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAAST 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Speak Low by George Duke on  
Michael Jackson isn't just a Beautiful singer...he ticks all boxes when it comes to entertainment..his dance moves 
Up looking slow cause Amber decides to call me at 3 asking me wtf Im doing 
point dance. Hitch hiking dance  BoyWithLuv2ndWin 
JugandoAhora @ IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey Dance  - Ideal Music 0002 
fjjsjsjd that's how i got kicked in the face during dance practice yesterday (i'm the one with the blue shirt) 
Ok now to the important business. Who has the video of Joon jumping off the table and perfectly landing to dance th 
"Anjali is professional dancer. She loves streaming her talent on BIGO LIVE. 
Join her on BIGO ID: 284597837
Downloa "
   I dont think you want to see me dance
I got Beyonc. I hope she can cook as well as she can dance and sing. Lol 
 First dance
Seulgi is the only member who knows how to dance and sing. Wendy can at least sing. Joy serves visuals and tone!! 
Can I just get a blackace du du dance as AJ has done! Half of blackace 
 Don't you dance?
 so sexy ! i'm falling in love ! would you allow me to let it grow in my mouth and suck it until you cum in my mouth ?
I get drunk and want to dance
I NEED OT6 DANCE PRACTICE 
"If u must dance well, u must understand rhythm &amp; timing. 
Patience"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : New Memories
 - DubVision + Afrojack
 "
"So I'll just dance in the middle of a room by myself
I'm alright I'm alright doing well
I don't need you need you need you"
i love the hitchhiking dance ):
"The NEW Sidewinder Band performs at the White Stallion Saturday, April 27th. 9pm. Good fun, delicious food, your fa "
Its 4 something in the morning and I just got this energy to dance lol
now we need the dance practice!
 I really really love this song Dionysus  MAP_OF_THE_SOUL_PERSONA and the dance
" wiiii ofc, you're a talented person, can rapp and dance, right? aaaannndddd you can make my heart dugeun dugeun. teheee "
Have you ever slept with the bitter chair that looks like a dance?
"Rands On Saturday : in a mood for a good vibe? Then join us today, it promises to be a great day! FreeAccess.

Eat "
MichaelJackson Did u know Michael Jackson is the first person to move a crowd like the Pope himself is around... V 
"Im not the kind of person who shows excitement. However, now the owner of a ticket to see  at the Sout "
"I've been to Beijing; of course, and also Seoul. I made some friends there and thanks to them, I can dance a bit."
I won a bad matchup cause alice deejay - better off alone came up on shiuffle and i was not gonna lose with meatbal 
It's time to dance the Rock'n'Roll 
 Lmao He Wanted Dance battle with hobi and now the guy with BP.. I'm living that life
So that's what the dance about sgsjsjshsj 
When rain could make me dance
"We met but once as though by chance, we didn't date, or did we dance."
Does  Ex-Provocation dance.
"I think I can Dance, it's just that I can't do any move that people do. I dance my own way - white people call it S "
 Dance all the way to your bedroom
"   The real difference though is that Finneys was short, stepped from underrota "
  Na dance the guy dey dance
Stan Getz - Balanco No Samba (Street Dance)
Happy Birthday to three who inspire others within our school and their fields of performance -  
IT IS HARD TO SING AND DANCE AT THE SAME TIME U TRY
NEW! WII U on Ebay UK Nintendo Wii U White 8GB Console with Gamepad + Pro Controller + Just Dance 2016 
"Lmao its 3am and Im trying so hard to learn Beyoncs lil line dance. Like girl, wtf give me a video"
You don't got time to cry right? I thought you were remaking yourself! ~Bossun (sket dance)
"""One thing that matters to me""
 

dancestarsfestival dance dancer worldofdance "
"Seyed Ali Jaberi and the Hamdel ensemble perform.
All Because of Love UK concert tour. 
A music production combinin "
" hi, hwang! uhh, i guess your dance skill is really great? also i saw that your lips is.... red. mind t "
" so,, what were u doing there  dancing? u dance?"
"    im being charitable. the r-word is one that makes britton feel bad, "
Im sorry but when Selena plays in the club i dont dance sorry not sorry 
"It's April 20, 2019 at 04:15AM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
Michael Jackson LIVE in Bucharest in 1992. Never seen anything like that in my life. MJ came on stage and stood sti 
Splash Dance with DJ Barry Harris at BT2 
Now playing on WGMU: Do You Wanna Dance by The Naked Sun from War With Shadows
   Haha just bloody dance like no ones watching
"Touching the Mother Earth! 

How to connect to your feminine:

1. Dance 
2. Meditate
3. Go to nature.
4. Ground you "
  They translated the dance moves. .
A Dance of Awareness Class is taking place at Cowdray Hall on Fri 26th April at 7:30pm. The dance practice aims to 
DANCE MFUCKING LEGENDS  
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Lisa being Lisa!!!! Dance~ groove~ enjoy!! 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
NauticalNews City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Who wants to see my 'I told you so' dance?! 
" I was trying to text you, but I don't know why my dm don't work, also thank you so much, but I don't "
" Smiles....

I will forgive you for this blunder....

But you should not dance on a busy highway ...

Life is precious Bros"
Vanessa the llama cries about Dance Dance Revolution
"ISSA REAL NIGGA HOLIDAYHappy mf cirthday to the hardest, gangsta ass lil nigga ive ever knownI know you up the "
 Low is when scumbags like u do not question why she was tortured without proof. Looks like Congi still pa 
"What makes Beyonc great is that she has a mix of almost everything. Dance, vocal skills, wide range music skill, b "
"while this is getting scraps of attention here and there, please love your sideM boys with all your heart, thanks! "
"Hello there, baby girl!!!
Tita ninang is excited na!
I'm sure you'll look like me. We'll dance and hit the stage to "
"   Nobody cares how you dance, just do it.   (30+ years, don't think I've ever se "
" Also it's very rare of me to watch the opening each time I watch an anime, but the OP are just.... aaaa "
  He plays far too much just dance
Sexy Girl Pole Dance Wall Sticker Vinyl Mural Girls Room Design Interior Decor Art Wallpaper Removable Waterproof W 
Celebrating 100th anniversary of Merce Cunninghams birth (on 16 April) with Antic Meet (1964) - the year of his co 
"Awesome Dance Moves From The '80s 

rockandroll music metal heavyrock hardrock"
good morning to this only everybody say thanks to astro dance line !! 
 You mean like a Mask But its a foot. Or a foot I put on my face or is it a dance move
Today's chapters started out as an idea based on Stardew's spring dance and ended up being Primrose playing matchma 
SHE MAD YALL BETTER DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
 Majestic dance
Animated figures dance in stilted motion.
scum villain au where lbh and sqq go to the same dance studio and sqq does ballet and lbh does breakdance and they 
 That's the look on George Christensen's face at the lap dance club as soon as he gets off the plane in Manila.
"If  dance like monkey, recession will end"
 Dont I have good dance moves??
AND DOES ANYONE TEMEMBER THE TIME WHERE I ASKED HIM TO POST AND HE POSTED A WHOLE VIDEO A FEW HOURS LATER AND I ASK 
"As I live and breathe, a joyous synergy of Bonobo mixing Rose Rouge by St Germain. 
/// ///
dance acidjazz "
 I think another of her little dance routines is in order.
Why it sound like the dance jus a start 
"Ros screaming to the crowd, asking them to dance to AIIYL like it's their last and immediately regretting it by sa "
"Ohhhhhhhh I wanna dance with Max Power
I wanna feel the heat with Max Power
Ohhhhhhhh I wanna dance with Max Power "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Electrify by Jakwob on  
The steps are so easy and fun to dance on gonna try later  
  We should have a rum fuelled dance off one day and settle it once and for all
All I want is the boy with luv dance practice is tHAT TOO MUCH!?
Good morning  Been working on a dance choreography thought up by myself! Considering that Ive previously learnt c 
"  Queen B = Diva; Mother Monster = Drama.
Its just that B is more of dance breaks show an "
NowPlaying IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey Dance  - Ideal Music 0002  
i invented the Eagle Dance back in 2017 
 Which is ?
"We made the mountains shake with laughter as we played
Hiding in our corner of the world
Then we did the demon danc "
im one of them niggas who dance like a old man 
This doesn't bode well...my current lifestyle choices include binge watching  episodes and drinking red 
"Look, I dont care where you arrive on the Beyonc be MJ matter but you see this Chris Brown thing, that guy is not "
"If i can control the beat,i can control the way i can make people dance and put smiles on their faces.that what mak "
  Hes got the music in his soul! Get him in dance classes as soon as hes more steady ion those feet!
"Where them hoes that's buying me a ticket? I think they all dance at Club Nikki 

Now where them hoes who be spitt "
He had an entire dance sequence? My heart  
this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody to DANCE like its your LAAAaaASTTT
I only ask that we may dance in revelry with one another once again.
"The Dance of Witches (1882) by Isaak Levitan (1860-1900). Artist born in Lithuania, died in Russia. Witchcraft "
"saucer macchiatoDANCE ALL NIGHT3/6/9
"
 Dionysus dance practice .
OK BUT IS WE GETTING A BOY WITH LUV OR DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE SOON OR NAH
" My opinion about you? Eum, you are really talented, can dance and rapp well! I really want to see you "
 Awarded for the inglorious Python Dance?
  It is me
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Summer by Calvin Harris on  
I cant put the full clip on here! But these 45 students only had 4 hours to learn a full dance routine that we cho 
"  Lmaoo, what's my own please.
No be you dey dance zanku for your WhatsApp  status ni"
Best Dance Musically Compilation Video 2019 | Dance Tiktok Musically Videos Vigo Video  Comedy 
What a crazy dance GameOfThornes 
Who was your first crush?  omg this guy who was in my dance class and he was my partner (i was like 5) and he'd al 
  Take the L dance please.....
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Blue Sky Mine by Midnight Oil on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Teardrops by Womack &amp; Womack on 
Come to Pretoria if you wanna dance like DANCE DANCE not trap
Dance for you - Beyonc 
Bandz a make her dance
Who is ready for the kispride dinner dance tonight? creativity family relationships 
 Siz cant sing dance or act. I got the talent siz HAHAHAHAH
    Apparently you just did. Go live your own life and quit 
"Do you like to dance?  yep, a lot "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Painkillr (DJ-Spin Radio Edit) by Erika Jayne on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Is That You
 - Party Dark
 "
"jhope beautiful
jhope talented
jhope kind
jhope pretty
jhope amazing
jhope perfect 
jhope dance king
jhope cute
jho "
"Saturday, we're back for you! :D You know the drill, happy hours till 9 PM! 

Call +91 90491 59911 | "
 A fair analysis and summation Mr. Senyane. Dan Dance ke motho le ambaarg whilst Steve is more gracefu 
 All I want to be farmers I have talent of dance can you help me. Great master
Let's go baby and dance now Aye Aye Aye by Robbie Rivera on  
  The Dutch wooden shoes. Aka Klompen. Now you can dance. 
 Baptists don't dance? We do it here all the time in Kenya
Dance &amp; EDM Music 2019 Female Vocal [No Copyright Background Music For Videos] RYVN - Run Away  via 
Last night full fun dance dhamaal swati.gamit.shah birthday party with  love punitjpathakofficial bro 
 Mariah Carey - Touch my body (like that's how I'd dance to that song so ya)
Another Brent dance looms
"""COOL CLUBBING MUSIC: Electronic music, also known worldwide as dance music (EDM) or club music, is the most popula "
Bitch I lit the dance floor UHP tonight
 The most powerful I have ever felt IN MY LIFE was pretending I could dance to this in a club 
"Photo By NeONBRAND | Unsplash -  
 newmusic music dancing NowPlaying diamounosguardo dance "
so this song is called as if its your last soOOOO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR FUKCING LAST 
"Ivana Sugar feet in  clip  If you go to a dance club, you need to take a break from dancing every now and then. We f"
"Only just gone nine and Johnny is already on the Just Dance.

Kids are ridiculous."
"Psalms 149:3 Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp

MysteriesUnfoldInMCGI"
"Dance like the world is watching 
.
.
.
malemodel alternativemodle gay gaymodle wicca magic "
"Kakamega twins' flawless dance moves amaze Kenyans [VIDEO]
"
  Nah ........I roll in squaded...can't go alone..and we just go to dance our esses out
My thoughts on Do You Wanna Dance? I loved it so damn much.. although I enjoyed the first half more than the second half I think
Guess who can finally go dance anywhere she wants to now????! 21  
"Kakamega twins' flawless dance moves amaze Kenyans [VIDEO]
"
         
Shit I dont know how to dance smh
 How bout taking the orignal Silverstein Short Songs...writing additional versus to full length. Brookf 
"heejin really is loonas center for a reason girl can sing, dance, rap, and has crazy visuals she has it all"
   I challenge you to a dance off.
 This dance makes my neck hurt 
 Dance and thumbnail are amazing as always
ora in onda Red Hot Chilli Peppers - The Adventures of Rain Dance Magg young radio
"At the jambutek label night in Feb 2017, Colombo undergroundelectronicmusic jambutek housemusic djlife travel "
do i go to dance today? help me
hyunjins little dance i want to COMBUST
As Little children that didnt have no devices or modern day tech per say. We still had Michael Jacksons music &amp; v 
so yeah i just finished twice tv dance the night away behind the scenes of the mvtwice with those outfits im ju 
I FINALLY SEE JOONIE DANCE WALKING FORWARD AFTER HIS VERSE LMAO
NowStreaming: A reimagining of Shall We Dance starring Michael B. Jordan on Hulu Plus
Finally I can properly scatter the dance !
who's that? it's cabaret cat! he's here to tap dance and punch you in the dick
When you feel blue DANCE DANCE DANCE 
[TRENDING] Taeyeon - Taeyeon's Daily Life: PUBG Addiction or Dance Addiction @ TaengooTV (190419) 
I may have missed this one so I have no in-depth quips lined up but anytime the beat the thats reason enough to dance!!!
    TOTALLY AGREE!!!!! This album does not get the praise it des 
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Marco Bailey Materia Music Radio Show 051 With Marco B by Safehouse_ 
"hello to that seulgi fansite who use dance with me as bgm and uses the lyrics ""love can be like bondage"" as an intr "
" ""COOL CLUBBING MUSIC: Electronic music, also known worldwide as dance music (EDM) or club m "
 First dance &amp; Ollg
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Riverside &amp;40;Reloaded&amp;41;
 - Sidney Samson +Tujamo
 "
I need a close family wedding to happen ASAP so I can dance at ANY moment
apparently jennie cant dance without holding lisa's hands too.  
Oh wow 1M make choreography dance for HSR song again
How can BTS and TXT dance so well I mean I can't even walk without getting slipped. 
Blood On The Dance Floor   MichaelJackson MJKingOfPop MichaelJacksonIsInnocent FactsDontLiePeopleDo 
"To the cute guy I dissed at the club,
My bad boo was just trying to dance with my girls:/"
"Don't wait for the storms of your life to pass. Learn to dance in the rain.

Steve Rizzo


DonKiss"
When you arent in the mood to dance but your date is already grooving on the dance floor 
this was armeries when we didn't get a Halloween dance practice in 2018 ArmysAreBrokenHearted
   Waiting  for  Brown  Family Dance and  Music  Video.  Goosebump  Moment 
Now playing Caqui by Joyce music best hits rock pop dance on  
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Marco Bailey Materia Music Radio Show 051 With Marco B by 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing One Of Us by Joan Osborne on  
 It's not really a measure of popularity so much as stuff which is vague enough to only really be labell 
" Actually, quite a clever dance through different applications of the word. Assonance doesnt matter. It ca "
Airbus is teaching jetliners to dance with robots in Hamburg 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Valleys of Neptune by Jimi Hendrix on  
Best rock pop dance music Now SOS Fire In The Sky by Deodato on  
"Neuron Radio plays the BEST in House, Dance, Soul, &amp; Classic R&amp;B. "
         
WebcomRadiobot is playing Shoeman - Feel The Love Rudimental (Shoeman 120 Dance Remix) [
"The way Seokjin performs Dionysus is always so PERFECT! 

He has this badass energy and those dance moves?? The hi "
It's time to dance the robot - with a song! But what kind of robot do you want to be? 
"When were together
Its a natural thing, dance with the wind like a feather
Fearing nothing"
Song that you dance to no matter what?  Little Black Dress by One Direction  
i am jasmines brienne of tarth and i SAID the lady doesnt want to dance 
"He singlehandedly made a lot of childhoods fun, hi dance moves, his voice, his 'falling' nose, his skin and even th "
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST
" This, THIS is what we call a dance QUEEN. Mamamoo is so talented and they deserve more credit honesty"
"""I'm up now so you don't , I don't pick up my phone ,  I dance to my ringtone "" "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Seven Year Ache by Rosanne Cash on  
Performing arts for 7+s Sunday mornings at Ricards Lodge- performing arts for 7-18 year olds!  Drama Singing 
"UNLEASH YOUR FITNESS POTENTIAL THIS SUMMER WITH BOLLYFIT! BURN FAT; TONE YOUR MUSCLES; LOOK GOOD 

 Reema Sarin' BO "
"HAHAHAH CRACKHEADS  Jin winking furiously, yoongi doing the pose again in the end, Taes no lip smile and hobis "
The best thing about dreams is how it can change from flying a damn dragon to a sad slow dance with your last crush 
twice tv dance the night away
Remedy is out now on both my Soundcloud and YouTube! Soon on Spotify! Link In Bio!   bass 
We can dance in desire or we can burn in love tonight
" All of my tats relate to my wife. Mainly songs, this one is Youre in Love With a Psycho by Kasabian. I "
  Me too. Ive never met a dance floor thats done me any good
"Starting a PTM, an orientation for parents with a classical dance performance by Mrija to invoke the blessings of t "
watching go dance practice and i jus realized how good haechan does that move during jaemins verse WTF... AND THE 
"LED Tron Michael Jackson 3D interactive Dance Show       NagaWorld Hotel, Phnom Penh "
Remember when So-hyun dance Darling?! OMG! She's so cute.  kimsohyun      
moonbin fuckin posted on ig the iconic dance from the ink concert and must say the best post ive seen today 
"Because three is not a crowd. In Moshi , the only think about these three is they make the crowd.......go crazy.. "
  Hes brilliant. Ive never been able to dance that well in my entire life. Its a personal tragedy.
"5. A Dance With Dragons by George R.R. Martin
"
"my friends: (talking to me)
my brain: (the only dance animation in vampire: the masquerade - bloodlines) huh"
so I was dropping it on the dance floor and the button on my shorts popped off
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Getaway by Miguel Migs Feat. Georg Levin on  
"HayateJutsu Dance of the Crescent Moon, Secret Sword: Moon Shadow (Anime only), Shadow Clone Technique, Transparen "
Shall We Dance?
"  Beautiful dance number from our princess

HiwagaNgKambatBukasNa"
"COOL CLUBBING MUSIC: Electronic music, also known worldwide as dance music (EDM) or club music, is the most popular "
"190419 The 57th Gyeongbuk Sports Festival

Memorable moment~ TheHongSisterperform on stage together 
  "
I always wanted to dance like moose didnt go my way tho 
Life's too short to dance with ugly men. 
Trynna dance with the birthday girl but her man here 
"This dance is so amazing, and the song is really powerful, i can't stop of hear Dionysus!!!

 "
My stamina is really low since I gained weight. I want to vomit when I dance too aggresive fml i just want my old body back. Asdfvhghl
"Let me see you dance, I love to watch you dance"
 lol I just bought Just Dance 2019 today
"THEY'RE SO CUTE  I WANNA SEE HYUNJIN'S COVER DANCE OF BOY WITH LUV
  "
 She is pissed because she cant dance and make it rain
"Finding solace my retreat.
Quiet time it is
Children running to and fro, going la la la and draining their minds c "
 I love bts because they gave me the envy to dance again
first dance 
  If true this will be similar to Ambanis showing Bollywood their aukaat by making them s 
" I dance in colors with this.
Beautiful
Thank you"
BOTANIC DANCE new project coming soon choreographer Oxford Oxfordshire Oxforddanceforum botanic  parks 
" and  this made me cry..
Saying goodbye to the dance studios today.
It has been an incre "
ROS: I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR L- 
" Eat, sleep, dance....."
"Hitch hiking dance 
 Please give me a ride too ~
 Me too ~

Whining dance
Aaahahhhhanggg
 What do you want me t "
 you're so beautiful . Acting &amp; your perfection  Kanchana3  congratulations mam! Dance Awesome
"blackpink invented domino effects dance choreographies
char AHDHAHAHA"
      He loves to dance  he was on 
" this was us  with Christina Aguilera Dirty, you taught me some saucy dance then wed do it for "
"I want to punch with your parents, so you'll go to the dance with me"
  Stupid to get so worked up about it. That's what creates barriers between police and the 
If true this will be similar to Ambanis showing Bollywood their aukaat by making them serve food to their guests &amp; 
Wasnt expecting last night to be such a buzz. Grown men acting like teens. pazdean  man like Mo Ideas 
Thats how I dance in my head  
Now playing What Cha' Gonna Do For Me by Chaka Khan music best hits rock pop dance on  
I can't believe i won't get a dance choreography for the baddest song out there... HOME !! I will get you out of th 
"The only wish is that my niece and nephew have a great matric dance. They don't have much, but they are such great "
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Rock Your World by Weeks &amp; Co. on 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: The Road To Hell by Chris Rea on  
Our baby girl Golden Caedo looking stunning in every event! She wore this outfit for her TayoPaRinMV! She also sh 
Goddess sa dance floor.  
" There is a time to dance.

"
It's the last day of the 2019 Fareham Stage Dance Festival  Well done to all our competitors and a hug 
"dance with me
             until the sky
                          turns red"
Broke in my new oldgringoboots tonight &amp; got some crazy cardio in! 1136 Calories burned !   Pretty much didnt le 
"I like to sing, dance, play, and...KAZZZZZZZZOOOOOOOO!"
" They dont give a shit whether some pretentious hypocritics pretend to take a protest seriously, dance "
I just realized....I deadass cant dance
 Just dance any style totukoya
" Life is Beautiful (Italian by Begnini)
Love Me If You Dare (French by Samuell)
Shall We Dance (Japanese "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : NOS op 3
 - NOS
 "
Michael Jacksons estate say their own investigation will have people back to feeling Its OK to say I like Micha 
"I told him oh you tryna dance huh? He hit me with salsa or bachata, what you tryna do?"
Seeing Chris Brown dance brings tears (of joy and I cannot express this enough) to my eyes 
NowPlaying Dubrocker - Fly on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
it might not look like it but i /used/ to dance and i consider being accepted at the dance club one of my greatest achievements
dance to this makes me wanna dance around a swimming pool drinkin a cocktail
"Screen Video Dance Floor
WhatsApp&amp;Wechat: 0086-13570180326
Email: kachine "
Let's go baby and dance now Timber by Pitbull Feat. Ke$ha on  
Now playing Caroline by Elmer Food Beat music best hits rock pop dance on  
" That's true. But nowadays, it's like a dance club. You can come in, but if you try to idk, rape the "
"One year after Aviciis passing, the void in dance music remains"
"Ros : THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAAAAST!

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
The worst thing is though then is whenever I need to swap with someone no one will swap with me and Im stuck havin 
" I wrote a few articles that might interest you on this same topic. 



"
"chaeng: THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAASSSJSJEBSNS

from green "
apparently afande  can dance tetema and i can't even try   
The sun is shining and summer around the corner. Why not put July 7 in your diary for Exeter Festival Funday in the 
The sun is shining and summer just around the corner. Why not put 7 July in your diary for Exeter Festival Funday i 
The sun is shining and summer around the corner. Why not put 7 July in your diary for Exeter Festival Funday in the 
Airbus is teaching jetliners to dance with robots in Hamburg 
"NewYork Weekend 
Music &gt;&gt; Brooklyn Circle (Smalls Jazz Club) | Music &gt;&gt; Late Night Dance Session: Bruce Harris "
SOMEBODY CALL 911 SHAWTIES FIRE BURNING ON THE DANCE FLOOR  
"If you cant dance to you sexy things, you cant dance."
 dance gone wild
Intro + Ice Cream Cake (Dance Cover by Red Velours)  Town Square [07062015] 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Last Chance by Kaskade &amp; Project 46 on  
 I thought the guy would be a great president &amp; the last good man in the political realm. Watching him 
that move in dionysus where they dance and then go into push-ups... yea
 Color by numbers is suuuper relaxing and Pole Dance for fitness and fun and self confidence
I made mama  dance like thus yesterday on  it was a  Easter gospel mix 
 I knoooo but we can both find dance places etc wya and keep each other updated !!
Now playing Fred Astaire - I Won't Dance on The Jonathan Station 
" conspicuously absent from the commentariat in recent days was Jennifer Rubin, self-styled Anti-Trumper at W "
"Oh lord, Just like the slough uptown. Parade through the ballrooms, decay in your costumes and dance"
Theres finally another dance group in Edinburgh!! Please go support me and my friends  
Get yourselves down to   this evening for a fabulous FREE event. salsa workshops music 
" Here is my favourite gang

We laugh together,
We cry together,
We fight together,
We dance togeth "
Who said that jin cant dance??? 
"Dance or Die 
So, dont linger on negative events in your past. They will begin to consume you.  Howeve "
Today was Exploration Stations. Kids got to explore what they were interested in. We had over 30 stations to choose 
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASSsst 
Let's get rolling! Dance time!
what type of dance do you do???  hip hop! ;u; 
"COOL CLUBBING MUSIC: Electronic music, also known worldwide as dance music (EDM) or club music, is the most popular "
"Ros: I want you all to dance like its your LAST!!
Lisa: "
 Give Momo her dance break bi tch
Airbus is teaching jetliners to dance with robots in Hamburg 
"Check out ""Dance Party Action"" - background music for videos &amp; media -  royaltyfreemusic "
"*Friendly Reminder* We do say: If the cat is not home, the mice will dance on the table. $BNB will never be the new "
Today's Dance YouTube Video The Chainsmokers &amp; Coldplay's Something Just Like This 
"No US geek should miss Gojotekicon in Ashland, Ohio. A weekend full of live music, dance performances, tabletop and "
DANCE ALL NIGHT -Extended Mix- / Sota Fujimori / SYNTHESIZED5
Tea Dance 16 May 1:30-4:30pm  Join us for another of our beautiful Tea Dances in the main hall of the museum to mar 
"THIS WEDNESDAY! 
The brilliantly talented Edifice Dance Theatre are running an adult and youth dance workshop!

All "
"Lets dance! 

Inspire creative expression &amp; improve coordination with our range of dance resources.

Shop Dance "
SOPE JUST TRYNa HAVE A NORMAL DATE NIGHT BUT THEY GOTTA GET UP AND DANCE BC THEYRE BOYS WITH LUV  THE FLAVOR OF 20 
So everybody to dance like its your LAST! 
" -
I was really happy because the dance BWL not so hard . . but diony-sus come I think it's harder  "
"Nice day for  LukeMurrellsTips members. Winners were Dance Music at $2.50, Streets Of Avalon at $4.3 "
"Kyle - Hey Julie! Lyrics / Lyric video feat. Lil Yachty  via 
heyjulietiktokdanceheyhulie!"
"Now Playing - Michael Jackson - Blood On The Dance Floor  

Listen in at "
" Dance, Dance - Fall Out Boy"
"Ey up!  is back at 9am to bring you RadiosHappiestHour 

We want to hear what making you smile/dance/sing "
URBAN Hip Hop dance style by  sAiko fighter crew (Girls) 
"UNLEASH YOUR FITNESS POTENTIAL THIS SUMMER WITH BOLLYFIT! BURN FAT; TONE YOUR MUSCLES; LOOK GOOD 

 Reema Sarin' BO "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Here You Come Again by Dolly Parton on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Voulez Vous by ABBA on  
Best rock pop dance music Now One Starry Night by Kevin Yost on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Everybody Wants To Rule The World by Tears For Fears on 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : That Paper
 - Lady Bee Ft. Feliciana
 "
"MBMS19 in Brief: Arteries Programme: 23  26 April. Workshops and theatre for children and youth. 
Central Nervous "
dance w/ me
 Well as long as you do not turn the music on and begin to dance.... Everything's fine 
"Listening to some music. My 4yo is dancing. Your turn mummy. Dont dance like you normally do though, do a cool danc "
as if its your last so i want everybody to dance like its your fucking LAST
dj DJfritsik controller pioneer pioneerdj ddjsx2 pioneerdjing music party instagramers partytime 
"A Runyankole saying says  "" Atakwenda nobwuwa kuzinira ahagati yeyanja nakugira ngu reeka kuyinsa omuchuchu""

For m "
somebody call 911 the boys are fire burning on the dance floor  
Dia Jago Hip Hop Dance
"I love hip hop and rap, dont get me wrong. But when it comes to downing each other and killing and this and that, "
"DANCELNE'S FIRST LIVE IS GONNA BE BOY WITH LUV COVER DANCE

amen

 "
my screenshot of gunhees tattoo has more likes than that video of showhos unit dance with swan lake this is why i hate stan twitter
" But why?  Dance your like Just Dance isnt secretly recording you! 
Also happy festivus est chociest!"
NA WHICH KIND DANCE BE THIS? 
"Book your table now for supperclubliv - Every Sunday, 3 plates and bottomless drinks for 30 

Eat.
Drink.
Dance. "
"At last, I'm found
Circle around
Last dance, no sound
Nowhere left to go, stay with me
Nowhere left to go, stay with me"
  On the Dance floor or securing people 
"Amid Summer Night's Dream: A short Shakespeare play at the Kenya National Theatre, courtesy of Dance Centre Kenya. "
 Dance like EVERYONE is watching
 i am dancing in the living room to dance in the living room
let me dance for you nigga. strip me. something. 
" Shyaaa!
Comedy has to be mixed in there so that when you're curved, 
You do a little break dance,  c "
 Yeah..but V funny dance can't remove from my eyes..hehe
  At least Kristina is not on there giving Bill a lap dance.
i could literally watch this all daylike bruh do yall have any idea how much energy &amp; body you gotta put into doi 
"Doyoung ORPHEUS 
- musician, poet and prophet
- his music had the ability to charm the animals and make the trees d "
"And meanwhile, V is doing some old man dance move by showing his back."
They played copperhead road tonight in the casino and let me tell yall. It took everything for me not to dance and 
"while his every moves get more sexier than before with his arched eyebrow with a disturbed expression.
One man slow "
Confessions on A Dance Floor was made for circuit gays
""" Laugh your heart out, dance in the rain, cherish the moment, live, laugh, love, forgive &amp; forget, life's too shor "
Solange dancing with Bey is what I think I look like when I dance drunk. But definitely do not...
"Reach For The Stars, inspiring quote, prices start from 5.95 wnukrt atsocialmedia eshopsUK tweetuk smallbiz "
 Nobody Sabi dance hall like Timaya.
"im not kpop fan but when blankpink's song which is going viral around the globe got played on the radio, my body au "
"The bully always says it's a joke. But to the one being bullied, it's dead serious! ~Bossun (sket dance)"
"  That dance cracked me up when I first saw Part IV. Well, it still cracks me up to this day! "
 Dance is life :)
UK 2018 Ballroom Final   Solo Dance  
Benny gets aggressive when I dance to Jay Park . . .
Airbus is teaching jetliners to dance with robots in Hamburg 
 Damn ma best dance with me like that on friday 
cek our dance practice GLAM - I Like That  gamsahamnidaa~~ ^^
 You sure love to sing and (as I see) dance
Waiting but not in vain. Dance moms kuno. Bhing Mde
"Happening now on UBC... 

Evoke is not just about music, its about dance,fashion,singing,fun but most of all yout "
"had a dance battle at the tractor bar tonight.. needless to say, sober me has way more fun than needed "
Let's go baby and dance now No Diggity by Blackstreet Feat. Dr. Dre on  
  This was the first dance at my wedding. A grim story...but what a tune.
 the mattress song is Dance Dance which has been stuck in my head for DAYS
"Make your easter blissful by treating yourself to top notch acting, dance and music at AGIP Hall, Muson Center Lago "
"thoughts about remo  he can sing, he can dance, the one that got away ni pipay hahahahaha chariing, sobrang bait, "
"7hrs Bachata Bootcamp and privates. Teaching this great group of students The beauty Dominican, Moderna and Sensual "
" Just for some extra luck, I'm running outside to do a rain dance!"
THE RUNNING MAN MEMBERS WERE LEARNING TO DANCE IDOL!!!!!!!!! HDKSHDSKHDKSDJKS KWANG SOO 
"If you watch the effort MJ puts into rehearsing, singing, dancing, costume, art direction... 

Youll never disresp "
No lie....Dionysus is one of the coolest dance but....I get so scared watching RM jump  not trying to jinx or call 
Moove + Groove Today!! (Saturday) 4pm   letsdance vamos SATwithNAT imback @ Millennium D 
Anyone wanna form a lil dance group and we can be like blackpink and get famous and travel and be cute
Busy practicing the 'switch it down' dance for our reunion. Weoo ang cute ni lola sumayaw kanina haha
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Family Affair by M.F.S.B. on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Catch Your Fall
 - Clokx
 "
At BDO street dance championships with daisy ready to give it 110% ...  
Life isnt about waiting for the storm to pass; its about learning to dance in the rain
I need to go more to the Dance Night Clubs! Maybe Bellingham? Maybe Seattle?
Anna Murashige's favorite dance move is to crouch down and kick her legs out. AnnaMurashige
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE
" Omg cuteness!!! Aaaaaand, how in the world do you get any 2, 3 and 4 year olds to dance walk in a straight line to the pool."
"Last week during my last dance practice before spring break, i decided to wear a pair of old shorts cause i forgot "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Whispers - And the beat goes on - The Whispers  on 
"Walk to dance floor *fart*, back to dj booth."
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Stainsby Girls by Chris Rea on  
 I'm eating breakfast and after I'm going to my dance lesson . 
If u can dance u have my heart ok bye
    tim Godfrey made dance plenty
I just love this  omg riri...  he makes me wanna dance 
 Please someone tell Hobi to do belly dance cause his hips are MADE for that!!! And his little victory 
Strictly Kev: My Stacy Torment. TV dance hunk reveals he's 'really struggled' but praises his new love - 
"Arghhhh, this early morning?? 
How will you compare Beyonce to the GOAT?? 

Vocals    
Dance    
Performance "
I hate concepts that give incredible words that dance.
"Lovely time with the amazing Kristina. Boat on the Thames,  Somerset House followed by a walk on Westminster Bridge "
"Me: I wonder what they mean by touch IT, touch what?!?!? 
Me after seeing the dance: nvm... should have guessed it "
Join us this evening at 6pm as we reflect and refresh our idea of the Last Supper as  perform 
My boss saying we always ask for comp tickets if it for kwaito or house anything that dance related but we don't sa 
I seriously cant wait to be able to dance again
"  
They weather forecaster said the day will be warm in the embrace of the sunshine, but ... th "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Talkin' Bout A Revolution by Tracy Chapman on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby We Wanna Party (Featuring Savage) by TJR Feat. Savage on 
"let this baby do his litol dance &gt;:( hes a baby 

BoyWithLuv2ndWin
 "
"708 Subscribers On YouTube In Just 2 Months With 38,000 Views &amp; Likes.
Wow ... Am So Happy.

Watch My Hot Dance Vid "
29. She enrolled at Winners Dance School.
"dance as if it's ur laassstttt! thankkyooouuu Rossiiieee! 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
"The foam party was ok people didn't wanna dance but then again, it was cold as shit so ig maybe better luck next time?"
todays news: nice rapper producer man does a little dance . it is the best little dance. more at 10 
"Ros: ""this song is called As If It's Your Last SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAASHDGST""
Yo: "
"Who was your first crush?  a boy in kindergarten 

we got partnered up for a dance by luck and i was so so happy "
"We try to make them dance, we to make them happy...we  try to make them happy ... we Joshileys spend weekend with N "
"Just seeing school idols fills me with energy, makes me want to cheer for them and makes me also want to sing and dance together with them!"
"2019.5.1(wed)
""DIRTY""

special guest 
KAMMA&amp;MASALO(from  Amsterdam)

dj's
CUTSG-HONKYG383KNOWYYA
Dance show cace "
"Why people only find bad things on the viral student that dance blackpink's song?come on Malaysia,even our prophet, "
Don't be jealous of jungkook cs of his perfect dance n all his power. You also can do like this if you drink banana 
My  chart for the month if april.                                               chart music dance 
"OH DON'T YOU DARE LOOK BACK
JUST KEEP YOUR EYES ON ME
I SAID YOU'RE HOLDING BACK
SHE SAID : SHUT UP AND DANCE WITH ME"
"Repost from teamquizthagreat with   Let the Happy Dance Challenge BEGIN 
 ... "
I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves Me ) (12 Remixes)Whithney houston
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Flow
 - SICK INDIVIDUALS + Mightyfools
 "
"    No mike, still in Bolton after yesterdays game. Just outsi "
listen to how stable her vocals are not to mention the hardcore dance routines they do before the rap part 
me and my cousin are making fun of these girls on the dance floor shes like Issa hoe
"""A r34sonable man may frolic with shame but will always dance with lost hope"" (Confusius)"
" Dance, study &amp; watch u on YouTube, Vlive ^^"
 Did MJ really do the anti-gravity dance ?
 Dapat full dance naaaa
I need someone to teach me how to ballroom dance
Now playing Out Of Touch by Hall &amp; Oates music best hits rock pop dance on 
Back to the wonderful  Dance Theatre after Easter break - work begins for Clash Festival! 
"First thing I see when I opened my feed was Tim. Dance music will never be the same without you, shine bright angel, RIP"
"Naichas cute reading dance ^.^ 

  Naicha BlackACE "
As if its your last so i want everybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAST LIKE PERIOD BITCH
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella

One common assumption about the demographics of Coachella is "
Congratulations BTS my heart too It beats fast You are a successful band Great Wonderful Performance is very luxuri 
OMG she is trying to do the IM A LITTLE TEAPOT DANCE. NODANCINGPM 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Chiquita by ABBA on  
 We know the dance moves to this song!!!! Forever a banger!!!!!!
The new thing in Akihabara is fetish cafes where you can see girls dressed up as Settling arguments with dance-offs.
"New Music Alert

408 Empire Y Celeb x Fraicy Beats - Dancing To The Beat

Are You Ready To Dance??
This most happen "
"After a power packed Day1, were starting Day 02 on an energetic note with a fulfilled dance workshop by Eshan Dha "
im trying to get the dance your blox off egg but everyone just will vote 1 :c
"S.I.S SIS    Anne   Sebin Gaeul    ABYG sayyes 
 "
 and I are having a 2000s Disney dance party at 4 in the afternoon
" Now which wld you prefer? 3 hrs of boring energetic routines, or 30 mins of pure creativity and mi "
Coast News  Dance classes for adults inspire students of all ages 
Christopher Revitt Kevin Dodson you both on the dance floor lol 
 U really have to dance alone minus help 
[TIA FACTS] Tia's speciality is Modelling and Prague-style dance.
Dance for you -Beyonc 
I love to watch idols dance and sing! Sometimes they give me inspiration~
"Finished up Sketch for Navin of their pone  
..and for your pleasure, the Song in questions for this "
The intense winds forcing the wind chimes to dance outside of my window and my heavy clock arent exactly putting m 
  He's so good that he's inducted in the hall of fame twice. Should have won AOTY twice at t 
"drunk.
""Here I goo.I'm also sexy now look here Joonie."",Jin started to dance sexily following the background's musi "
If you not trynna dance banda with me at 3am I dont want you
"   There's no spring in igbo waist dance, it's an art"
So today is 4/20 which means that umm instead of doing weed I have a dance party on FaceTime with my cousin from 3- 
we'll get boy with luv dance practice within next week i can't wait
"Ros in Korea: Are u readyyy? Let's go!

Ros in US: DANCE BITCHES GET YO LAZY UP HERE AND DANCE"
"No wonder straight girls stray away from their man for a sec, they dont know how to dance."
"Les Twins vs Waydi, Rochka  Battle at GS FUSION CONCEPT WORLD FINAL 2014 /  
super dance battle hiphop final"
 Dance with you. I never dreamed. 
  I hope you know that Hey Say Jump Banger Night choregrapher is Korean. He is BTS dance teacher and Choreographer
"Imagine if Tope Alabi could dance and shake body. Like, really.

Issolova for Beyonc my guy. All over."
      Also if youre trying to say that twe 
This would be me and my sis but neither of us can dance. Thats my bestie though  
" 
HI MG
URE SMALL :D
and rlly good at dancing wAW
pls teach me how to dance because i legit look like a jell "
  I feel pitty when convent educated people like Mr dhume quote Vivekananda whenever it suits them.. 
( Okeey this song remember me when i'm wals dance with my crush ) 
Free Shipping Rhinestone Shine Crystal Dance Shoes 
Now to learn to do the dances by my nephew's wedding so I can dance with my mama. 
Best rock pop dance music Now I've Seen That Face Before (Libertango) by Grace Jones on  
"TIL what an Albanian-Filipino wedding would look like: castles, dancing, eating and drinking. Oh and a final Hawaii "
 There are many want to dance
"NowPlaying @ 03:50:16 ET: ""Michael"" by Telepathe from ""Dance Mother"" (2009)"
Dance with me she said  
so vmin is rlly gonna look at each other whenever they dance boy with luv? Even When Theyre Just Goofing Around. 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Honey by Mariah Carey on  
"i teach to present my melody

share notes that generate heart beat

fine tune the instrument within which you live "
"Holiday Weekends are made for extra long DXF classes!


DXF-Dance Xross Fitnesss Spring Break Special is toda "
Frozen is on Fox Movies so the whole living room is nieces dance hall as if shes watching that on VR
this song is called as if its your last so i want you to dance like its your LAAAST
"China's Bytendance is working behind music streaming app for the overseas market
   "
"People tell me that I look scary and unapproachable. First off I am a fun girl to be around, I do crazy stuff to ma "
I laughed when I saw how awkward yoongi looked while sitting on that bench waiting to dance hdjfjjejfje
"I have absolutely nothing better to do tonight, so Im drinking alone in my room, listening to T. Rex and having a "
Fuck dionysus. Im addicted with the dance.
Dance everyone...
Let's go baby and dance now Gangsta's Paradise by Coolio on  
"""We should consider each day lost, on which we don't dance at least once."" Friedrich Nitzsche "
"When music, dance break barriers 
"
"This Jive was everything.
.
Yass. I cant wait to rewatch this, this incredible dance.
And to see you bo "
Watch Moment Tiwa Savage Taught Zlatan How To Dance Zanku In A Proper Way At Lagos Night Club  Buhari 
"Score of the Day: A contemporary chamber work based on baroque dance forms
"
watching lip &amp; hip dance practice for the 8374736th time :^)
Mo Laudi  Dance Inside of You Ft.Rocky  
[ 3rd DEBUT // 15.09.13 ] Red Velvet - Ice Cream Cake + Dance Break by Matchaday @ Tamini Square  matchabot
 Well then lets dance cause got damn 
Watch Moment Tiwa Savage Taught Zlatan How To Dance Zanku In A Proper Way At Lagos NightClub 
Taught a guy how to dance tonight lessonswerentfornothing
" TWICE - DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY 

 mini outing yay! went to the beach and shot under the heat of the sun
 pretty "
" Dancing is not for everyone, not every has the calling so i don't even bother myself, my own no pass chair dance"
 FIRST DANCE
Now playing The Safety Dance [September 1983] by Men Without Hats!
"He's smart,kind, handsome. He can sing and dance he smell so nice ano pa bang kulang? "
"THIS is how you dance to techno, take notes. 
"
signed up for dance lessons.. got inspiration from beyonc and normani
just watched the dance videos and omg I did so badly wtf
"Maybe I have a career in acting...I've been dying to get involved in interpretive dance, or maybe--"
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Pistol Packin' Mama by Al Dexter &amp; His Troopers on 
The School of Dance Gala 
Ants in my pants and I need to dance Now get on up
Well this doesnt happen very often in the studio   had Oscar from the Cornwall Dance School throwing so 
 Finally a dance i can do
Its my 21st birthday and someone told me all my dance moves are just different variations of the cotton eyed joe a 
p.s there were multiple times I had to put my glass down &amp; break out in dance &amp; song
Dance for me // Tory Lanez
When a guy can dance 
"   My brother, our military boots is made in abia, Aba in particular. Without the "
" zevka's upchar  Kim Kai pls dance video update,pls youtube channel pls pls pls pls pls

 KAI   
weareoneEXO"
" A tiny dance battle






"
Will miss the wonderfully unique music and dance show Pepperland turning my TF positively psychedelic!  
 Kanchana 3 movie so beautiful acting and dance mass
Brit Marling made the most serious show where interpretative dance is a primary plot element
  One girl is in her bedroom right now practicing this dance steps 
Hi I'm here to tell you that due to a request by  who wanted to see me dance again I'm doing a beat 
 The Daddy Daughter Dance thing always seemed odd to me too. I think to call it 'sexualized' is over eg 
"Bayonetta Collab Project | ""The Umbran Dance Party"" | Community Combo Video  via "
Best rock pop dance music Now Pa' Huele by Eddie Palmieri on  
Daydream emote is finally back for 800 vbucks! Get it now in the item shop before it goes again and dance the day a 
Easy  Why be on the dance floor if you're not going to dance?   it. You went all the way in. 
This time with the whole medical migraine botox song and dance on thursday it actually looks like someone stabbed m 
" Totally, Gaga is so theatrical and Beyonc so diva, both way to entertain are different but so fuc "
Great two page pull out of  dinner dance in this week's   on sale now! 
 I understand.. But the whole dance of democracy is of exploiting the 'differences' n 'preferences' of is 
"  2letters N.O...can you dance, dance, dance like that??"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Shed A Light
 - Robin Schulz &amp; David Guetta &amp; Cheat Codes
 "
Can Beyonc do the Anti-Gravity dance? if not can we stop the comparison. Una no get respect o 
 Paul's upset that he's not a pretty princess and that no one wants to take him to the Sadie Hawkins dance
what is a fortnite dance
being that one boy in the dance class  
Is it socially acceptable to break out in dance at 8am on the high street?
I paid my respects 
    My daughter and I dance to it whenever news is on 
Walk The Moon - Shut Up And Dance 2015   kbradiothp internetradio
" The Moonwalk, is a better milestone/main event than any Beyonc show. It was and will always be an "
ohhh I wanna dance with somebody!! thanks mintokki  we love Whitney. 
4 weeks to go until our first rave in a forest   dance oldskool bass garage house classics tech 
     Awesome dance bro
LETS DANCE ALL NIGHT LONG SeiSeiBot
"Not @ how hyunjin was ready to do the dance with them sksbsksnshs
Stayarmys, we won once again.  "
Im still not over Namjoon and Hoseoks little dance.  BoyWithLuv2ndWin 
" Bias: Eunbi
Her voice, her dance, her visual, her personality, perhaps everything about her. That's "
 We should be learning that rn dance class
Let me just say that there are boundaries to a first dance...
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOURE LAST 
"Do you like to Party?
Do you like to Dance?
Do you like Prizes?
Do you SupportIndieFilm?
 SupportIndieFilm Party"
isn't minjae tired to carry the whole dance industry on his back at such young age? the baby just can't stand still 
Its really hard to learn choreography in a small space while using fancams instead of a dance practice OTL
 What value have u achieved with this your senile Twitt this morning . Is the pyton dance not enough rea 
our dance line never fails to feed us well  
"The NEW Sidewinder Band performs at the White Stallion Saturday, April 27th. 9pm. Good fun, delicious food, your fa "
"For the records, Micheal Jackson remains the only and unrivalled GOAT. He conquered the world through his music, pe "
"Apparently the Man Servant is peeved that the robot pet, who can dance to music, wont dance to Led Zeppelin "
"  Sadistic is more like it. Not surprised youd be a fan.  Your words tell on you, often.  You have "
 Ft  duanedarock Dance Floor prod by duanedarock 
Ants in my pants and I need to dance Ants in my pants and I need to dance
 The dance mat is my absolute FAVE! My cousin and I used to do battles on it 
"kanchana3 (3/5) over all okay to watch, if you're liked Muni kanchana series. 
1st half really engaging with goo "
On the off chance that Digvijay uncle wins the Bhopal seat will we dance in the streets claiming Hindutva terror has been defeated? Thoo
"Hey Nelson peeps and anyone else, come on down for an end of summer dance party at Deville Cafe next Saturday (27 A "
titzies DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
"   Oh my,,,thank you for sharing this one,,finally i saw the whole choreo,,, "
My current dance release 
Can i have this dance
" Michael made dancing cool.

He made EVERYONE love dance in an era where it's either you do slow songs o "
"Ros: ""this song is called As If It's Your Last SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAASHDGST""
Todos: "
"A year ago today we lost a pioneer in dance music, an icon and an inspiration to aspiring dj's all over the world. "
my sons passion is dance and im trying to be supportive of him so i would really appreciate it if you could retwe 
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella - Los Angeles Times "
"Im crying cuz 

1. Vocals r 
2. HE HIT EVERY NOTE

3. THOSE DANCE MOVES "
"   BTSJUNGKOOK JUNGKOOK Jungkook's appearance, Voice, and Dance are all great"
"So question. 
What line dance was Beyonce describing in her version of before I let go?"
"no one:

ros: I FUCKING SAID SCREAM AND DANCE AS IF IT'S UR LAST MOTHERFUCKERS"
NowPlaying Beautiful Lady Dance by  listen at  
"Let us dance in the sun, wearing wild flowers in our hair. Susan Polis Schutz
quote "
ros screaming for coachella to dance is literally the peak of 2019 like.. nothing can top that
So I got served in a dance battle tonight by two white chicks.....
Last chance to tune in for the fabulous Dance Special on the Royal South Street Society Hour on Primary Perspectiv 
I cant dance  but I can groove
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Don't You Worry Child (Radio Edit) by Swedish House Mafia Feat. John 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Ode To Cachao by Tito Puente on  
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR L 
"Opportunities dance only with those who are on the dance floor!!!

This morning  Fitness Center, IBB Square "
" Iwan Rheon 
Charles Dance
Peter Dinklage
Michelle Fairley
Tough decisions."
This was a great wedding! What a night! The first dance song was ratherbe by  and  - anothe 
"Bonjour, I'm Milo Puffnstuff. I come from the Earth. Did you know that dogs drool? Blows your mind, I know. Take ca "
SHUFFLE DANCE MUSIC - Best Of Shuffle Dance Music 2019 11 
how does jinsung dance so effortlessly
    Your big match with big Dave at the big dance put a big smile on 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Breakin' Away by Al Jarreau on  
If Jakk off the beans know it's the hammer dance-Jakk
"   OMG. This Jive is everything..
Thank you to you both.
For an amazing, i "
 YAAAAS ALL OF MY SEMENS ARE GONNA DANCE THEIR WAYS TO THE DESTINATION LIKE THIS LMAO
Lol me when I teach dance 
Please kindly to check out my new dance cover BLACKPINK -  AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST thank you!    LISA
The people who didnt dance as if it was their last after she yelled at them to do so  
"Countdown Extra!  ""Shut Up And Dance"" Walk The Moon nowplaying afn TOKYO WalkTheMoon"
Last chance to tune in for the fabulous Dance Special on the Royal South Street Society Hour on Primary Perspectiv 
 Getting in a fight on the dance floor seems so wrong
"HONK HONK HONK HONK!!!
*stares at pomodoro timer with existential dread*

and now... five minute dance party 

alr "
// goin to the dance studio at 5 
" ACE.U DANCE COVERS 

 a thread
 basically just concept photos from the dance covers weve made so far
 follow "
" Yes, hit you with that ddu ddu ddu!! Let's dance hahaha."
"Damn, my daughter turned 8 years old today  time is going so fast and shes becoming so big! 

(And currently play "
 Seeing John Cleese gallop reminds me of the  Will McKenzie dance 
Support Kanye West x Calvin Harris x Nicola Fasano - I Love It vs Overdrive vs I Like To Move It ($tage Mashup) [EL 
"Crescendo and Peak
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 All betwixt be damned"
Im at a bar (rare) with a dance party &amp; all the guys are  and all the girls are cool cute and fun big surprise
"i'm at work right now but who cares about rules when moon bin posted their dance practice of ""remember"" performance "
i was streaming caratland random dance and when yes or yes played i ran to my laptop and hit my knee........
"  Yup. Me, at 26 y/o, still dont know what to do with life... and the fact that she qui "
"Loncat"" is my style of dance"
 Those dance practice and dance videos are so good. Also love the adult line cause they are my age lol. 
 Do THEY really dance or its just a video? Because omg they change their outfit and their scenery so fast  
Hey  &amp;  I've finally found the lost footage of our dance routine!!! 
" Awwww, he really like her taxi dance  "
"  Tae holding Jk, or Jk holding Tae during the dance. It's not on the dance. Like, grab "
 This statement makes my alcohol boils There'll be alcohol on the dance floor!
"""It's a dance with the devil, a stumbling tango, it's a dance with the devil, trying to borrow from tomorrow, it's "
Dance with the Devil is a track on Witness Deluxe and it highlights Katy's battle using alcohol as a way to cover u 
DANCE FOR YOUR PIE KEITH
  today i learned you can dance i need to catch up wtf
Ebony say just came to dance and dassit
 just a sober Lebanon hanover dance party
"A Feast For Cro-Magnons or A Dance With Drones: GRRM writes the US administration can get back to Imperial, Joel."
"  He is still dilawan ,he just  dance with the flow at Dutertes admin,but I wont be suprise "
"taehyung can dance, sing, produce music, paint, play piano, take beautiful pictures, visuals and can even do magic. "
   Sir saying military kit is from aba is a lie from the pit of hell. The present gov 
" Wow, really complicated question... I would go with...

Charles Dance
Peter Dinklage
Diane Rigg
Lena He "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np The Logical Song by Supertramp on  
"British Doctors May Soon Prescribe Art, Music, Dance, Singing Lessons "
" One dance, two dance is not enough
You got that glow in the dark so I'm not giving up
I'm reading your mind, you "
"I can see hyunjin dancing along to his bias group dance..

"
"Music x Dance  Reimagined
Listen to  and  's First single SokkuraPenneFromDevi2!
A energetic "
"Kim Kai pls dance video update,pls youtube channel pls pls pls pls pls

 KAI   
"
I think the other side of the dance floor is better
 whats the best song to dance to?
Now Playing: KANT KINO - Dance For Me K.O.M.A! (Komafest Edit) -  BlameEBMRadio
It is 9:30 in the morning and people are already raving on the Just Dance stage. They will be here all day and I ha 
" Yes!!! Mark there wow. You can clearly see his passion his sense of opinion  Yep, kind of took inte "
 DEPECHE MODE DANCE PARTY OF 1
Bolivar Herald-Free Press: Country dance set for Saturday at Y 
190420 dreamdance_academy Feeldog dance workshop  by spr.artistreet  
 akka super movie ur acting superb and dance nice vedhika is back Tamil movies
 Haha haki parents and demons my mum just said that a dance with jacaranda bookmark looks demonic because it has a snake on it.
"It reminds me of my grandpas dance, why taehyung is like this ?  "
dont think i forgot about that gotdam vmin inteaction during the perf... theyre so cute i CRY! cant wait to see 
"me: h-
Ros: YOU BETTER DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST DANCE BITCH"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Buriku
 - Steve Andreas + DAMS Ft. Zojojo
 "
"Track Name   ""Demon's Dance""
Artist ""Jackie McLean""
Album ""Demon's Dance""

start time :  3:38am
"
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST! ros 
LIKE??? WHAT??? ALSO HIM DOING THAT LITTLE JUMPY DANCE NEXT TO GGUK??? PERIODT! 
Let's go baby and dance now Zero by Chris Brown on  
"     My mom had his album(s). Videos, audios. She could sing almos "
Last chance to tune in for the fabulous Dance Special on the Royal South Street Society Hour on Primary Perspective 
My dance partner for the night  My dad  tqm 
 This is the bauty of being an African...that's why they hate us so much! Unreheased just pure Afri 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB California Sunset by Blank &amp; Jones on  
Fire tears through Rotherham florists and dance studio: A florists and dance studio in Rotherham have gone up in fl 
    Stfu mj is/was a greater performer than any artist to exist 
so when i was a kid i could skate do gymnastics classical dance western dance classical singing (both the types pre 
White people trying their hardest to dance never disappoints and always makes me chuckle to myself . yougotthis atleastyouaretrying
"With mental health once again being a focal point at the forthcoming  in Ibiza, heres why, instead of suf "
" with Vasantha Utsavam, A Festival of Music &amp; Dance. 
Today at Indian Consulate Auditorium, Dubai!
dubai "
"Now playing The Wombats - Let's Dance To Joy Division. Listen on  
"
&lt;get into the aisle and dance to your asses' contents&gt;
Thats about to be the new dance looselegs  looselegschallenge   85SouthShow Nashville show1
rock pop dance classic hits now: Fever by Roy Ayers on  
"Enjoy a night out at the Elegance &amp; Class Boat dance + buffet  on May 18.  Pass Da Mic  is the MC for the night
You "
"As long as you live, you are bouncing. Dance to the beat of your heart. bounce  "
You don't have to accept things because that's 'the way they have always been'. Let yourself evolve. 
"DOLSaturdays 
Dancehall with Jamon  
GForce GDC
GDCAlabang 
GForceDanceCenter 
 @ G- "
"Tbh those comparing MJ to Queen B is just the height if been disrespectful...

Younno how many kids during the earl "
Africa Bum Bum Line Dance 
"Ooouuu, I do too. I was never in the studio, but I used to dance like crazy. I lowkey want somebody to get back int "
 sack these muppets immediately ! There are people being stabbed to death while these prats dance roun 
 Can anyone tell me what the point is with expressive dance ?
"Take me out! To the dance hall!
Let me out! To the ball dance!
Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas/Take Me Out!!"
WHEN ROSIE TOLD YOU TO DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST THEN YOU FUCKING DANCE!!!!!!!!!! BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
everyone staying to dance with them at the end love that!
"the fact khalid got to dance with blackpink before me doesnt shock me,, doesnt mean im not jealous though  "
I SAID I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LASHGKGJDJD!!!
"Secret Tape 
dance team intro 
Secret Tape 
da "
"DOLSaturdays 
Beginners Hip-hop with Jim gforce_jim 
GForce GDC
GDCAlabang 
GForceDanceCenter 
  "
Dont let me drink unless your ready to dance lmaoo
"Top 10 Irish Dance Blogs, Websites &amp; Newsletters To Follow in 2019  Tech News"
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAST
 No dance move will beat Shaku Shaku.
  Asher pushes off the wall. He stalked through the crowd of bodies. He wasnt going to m 
"Look at those dance moves!
Aren't they just sizzling on the stage?
To see what happens next, watch LoveSchool4 to "
Girls from the bay really get down like dudes on the dance floor  you can always tell us apart
Wang Chung - Dance Hall Days
Alright Ive convinced myself to learn this dance. Ive been inspired! 
 Hey lioness is that what our dance leads too? xxx
"NCT U with vocal line
NCT U with dance line
NCT U with rap line
NCT U with hyung line

 should I do the summoning circle?"
  It just makes you want to get up and dance!
  Looool oh my god  that was a good dance there 
i love the dance they do at the woah woah woah woah woahhhj part
Whats life without a little dance sesh 
        
Its almost 4am and Ive been up since 8am yesterday but me and the little one are playing dance dance revolution I 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Nobody Else
 - Axwell
 "
Just Dance 2 - Rasputin (side by side)  
"DOLSaturdays 
Hip-hop with El-John gforce_eljohn 
GForce GDC
GDCQuezonCity
GForceDanceCenter 
 @ G "
  If only if Khan the Khant had more money for the Met to spend on dance classes and 
"    Thank you for the dance, not bad for somebody who is hungover a "
Last chance to tune in for the fabulous Royal South Street Society Hour on Music Matters - Dance Special! Today at 
Someone have a kickback tomorrow (today) Im trying to get drunk and run someone son a lap dance 
Play and dance with our Easter bunny tomorrow. Join us for a family-friendly EasterBrunch. Call us for reservation 
"DOLSaturdays 
Adult Beginners Hip-hop with Ishii  
GForce GDC
GDCQuezonCity
GForceDanceCenter "
me singing both parts of every song by Dance Gavin Dance 
"   BR, Queen; Dancing Queen, ABBA; Wind that makes the barley, Dead can Dance; Fields "
 saw me dance for realzies &amp; I wish I couldve got a picture of her reaction  Shooketh
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock West End Girls by Pet Shop Boys on  
"HIGH AD FUCK 

HAHAHAHAHAAAAAAAA 

AND THERE'S AN OWL OUTSIDE HAPPY CHRISTIAN NEW YEAR SLASH IT'S LITERALLY A FULL "
"""I dance to forget.."""
"So anyway, I downloaded it. Its a catchy song fjsjdjejdb very much a club/dance when youre drunk as shit song. Th "
Blood on the Dance Floor  via 
"Just favorited ""Msd.Remixes ... Club Dance Mission Vol.103"" by Msd.Remixes / Michail.D on Mixcloud "
 please post the solo bridge-dance break 
LETS GOOOOOOO!!!!!!  newmusic independent hiphop rap club dance California texas music gifted 
Chris Brown is just a better dancer as a young man but his dance steps are now bleh. You guys are thoroughly inpres 
first dance 
Leading techniques for Social Dancers  is nothing more confortable to dance with a partner that makes us feel safe 
har The Hip Drop Dance Complex lagt ner????
       
Since having a trapped nerve in my lower back I find it so hard to dance. Too much pain.
"Don't forget no dance today, but back to normal next week. Happy Easter everyone I hope you have a lovely weekend"
i love my doughter  who plays a beautiful teapot woman in ua theatre &amp; dances sense and sensibili- 
"But then, theres this person that somehow criticized my way of dancing by saying that I tend to complicate the dan "
 imma floss dance on this bitch
I can't stop sing and dance to don't change  DontChange streamdontchange DontChangeOutTonight 
Sat April 20 at  EARLY SHOW! Hafner + Deathglam + Dead In Argentina + Edomites 5pm - 8pm $10 21+ &gt;&gt;&gt; The 
*hits sleezeball dance*
The soul-searching began with a dance.
"CHAENNIE at COACHELLA gave us :

ROS : i want you all to dance like its YOUR LAAAST!

- give it up for them guy "
"Congratulations to LHS alumna Shree, we are so proud of you! Watch her incredible and beautiful dancing at "
Dance CraZ3 
Now playing The Hunter Gets Captured By The Game by Grace Jones music best hits rock pop dance on 
Y'all better dance bitches because she is mad MAD BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
"Echos Easter Bank Holiday Sunday Party!
Pop / Chart / Indie / Dance / R&amp;B / Throwbacks 
Party 'til 4am! Advance tic "
  Oscars dance from yesterday 
two random fursuiters at the sakuracon dance wordlessly pulled me into a group photo and it was v cute
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Quand Bugsy Digomme by Stomy Bugsy on 
i just wanna slow dance with u.
" I dance with them, but sometimes I feel bad because they really be looking for some mess. Nah bby"
This time next week youll be kicking yourself if you didnt come to the best night out in town Cardiff! Grab your 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: All This Time by Sting on  
"One dance two dance is not enough
You got that glow on the dot so I'm not giving up
I'm reading your mind you know "
"Some pictures from  2019 Qualifier last weekend on 13 April. 

Thank you to all the Dancers, Offici "
 I thought this was first dance lol
"Bride-to-be cancels engagement shoot, opts for first dance photos with dying father  "
"that finger crooking at the chin (?) dance gives an unnecessary overwhelming effect to my weak heart

esp if the ca "
"Don't you stop the music
Get into it
Won't you dance with me?"
"she: 
 sing
 dance
 walks like rihanna"
      Thats not lip syncingthats singin 
"wh- people drag this girl for how she dances,,, KEHSH I DANCE LIKE THIS ON GOD INDIRECTLY @ THE WHOLE DAMN DANCE DE "
" there will be those type of songs where u wanna cry and dance at the same time ( ""sad"" looking at you )"
Sexy dance stage for DongHwan... MAKE_YOUR_KEMiSTRY
"    Vice Versa

(this one used to be Samba Brazillia Anthem) Madilu had not sang "
"NEVER BLAME PEOPLE FOR DISAPPOINTING YOU,BLAME YOURSELF FOR DEPENDING ON THEM TOO MUCH....
A GOAL GETTER WILL PASS "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Radio Crash
 - Ferry Corsten
 "
"""THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST""

Miss Roseanne were total "
" Deep down low by Valentino K
This girl by kungs
Solo dance by martin jansen
Belong &amp; all my love by cas "
Just want to play Spin You Around by Morgan Wallen and dance to it all night
these poof poofs have me doing the happy food dance
I can literally dance to anything 
Clare R5 - 1. Dance Of Heroes runs 2nd off a 6.42% market move.  MarketSwoopers HorseRacing
" You better move, you better dance "
 Sis plis. My head dey dance
Today is finally the first day I can start learning the for the SF9 dance mashup. Im scared I will mess it up bc I couldnt start earlier
"During a drunken dance off with the girls last Friday, I really badly hurt my front teeth... Not only do they STILL "
"I sit in bed. Our bed. The sun streaming through. Blink. Eyes aching. Gather my veil of sorrow, carry it through th "
" My dancing skills are something that I want to share with you   &amp; all

Dance is m "
        
Now Playing: She Wants To Dance With Me - Rick Astley - Listen now at  80s 80smusic 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Drinkin' in the Blues by Sonny Terry &amp; Brownie McGhee on 
Where my hoes at? Tryna dance to ke$ha
Documentary Screening: The Picture House - The Story of Limerick's Cinema 
Hello guys!!! Get a chance to dance with a strangers lmao or more?!? (Or more daw? HAHAHAHAHAH) . I dont know how t 
"I just got in a fight with a girl on the dance floor because she told me she doesnt like Knowing Me, Knowing You "
ANYWAYS PETITION FOR SKZ DANCE LINE TO COVER BOY WITH LUV
 Happy dance and onto better times ahead. Sending the best. 
EVERYONE I WANT YOU TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST
We need kevin to dance 
"When neither of them can dance lol. 
.
.
.
.
.
rap fashion soundcloud explorepage producer viral trap "
This is a video for  but everyone should enjoy bc dance is rad 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Joyride by Roxette on  
people say boy with luv is bangtans easiest choreo but imo it's definitely the hardest the cover. not the dance mov 
"Go fck yourself get into kpop for girl idols boobs and whatsoever not-even-erotic dance move.

You deserves the 8th hell man."
Impromptu midnight dance party night in my room!!!
"
SNSD The Boys Dance
"
tell me why I'm on my floor listening to The Cure's Last Dance.... shits crazy
WHEN BRIGETTE DOES HER DANCE WOW MY HEART JUST UWUed 
 I NEED YOU TO SING AND DANCE OUR SONG RN HAHAHAHA
"Nobody: 
Absolutely nobody:
Not even a single soul on this Earth:
Michael Scott: listens to  just dance "
 So glad I got to dance it out with you. 
"DOLSaturdays 
Kids Class with Myka  
GForce GDC
GDCQuezonCity
GForceDanceCenter 
 @ G "
the little dance your thumbs do when you arent sure how to reply to a text
Like the effin' crowds sing along and dance with them
she wants to dance like urnam7
Sing out as loud as possible! Show off that drawing! Dance to your heart's content! You are....AMAZING!
Its murder on the dance floor... you better not kill the groove
"HAPPENING NOW: NTVPlanetK to entertain your young ones. Also, reduce stress by watching the little ones as they of "
Lmao random thought. I really cant believe I used to really gather up $5 worth of change to go to G&amp;L Productuon d 
Aasma Dance Company Private Limited done a great show of bride &amp; groom entry on 19th of April 2019 at Devam. 
Dance the Night Away is the song you'll never get bored
"KIM TAEHYUNG:
SINGER
DANCER
PHOTOGRAPHER
ARTIST
1ST HE OFFICIALLY BECAME PART OF THE DANCE LINE
NOW HES OFFICIA "
 Is she pregnant? And that's good butter there. You know how many cows had to suffer for this plus sized YO 
   you are still tied to other end of the rope around your neck just like a 
"For your Saturday morning read via  



 &amp;  have your "
 I just love that people are critiquing Ariana when shes had 3 1s in the past year and Beyonce hasnt had 
Just want another who would dance with me all night.
Whos ready for BCA Nationals 2019?!
"Yup thats me in 2008, hooping for 10 seconds or so in between an improvised dance performance during a fest in my "
Day one combining Wellbutrin and I'm having a dance and singalong party to from under the cork tree while I clean so I...
"  Cold and clammy treatment is being given to this issue....by this current govt.

Du30, l "
"9 photo one day answer  share 
youtube
dance
music
BreakingNews
BREAKING
YouTuber Mikh "
"Happy holidays...! Tonite dance the night away with Grooveback DJs @ East24, as usual great vibes till u drop!! "
  And Emirates is his dance floor
"I'm gonna rock the dance floor this weekend, What's your plan?
IndiaDekhegaKalariKids "
dance battle with hoseok and lisa pls 
Best rock pop dance music Now Samba De Verao by Caetano Veloso on  
Close your eyes dance with me 
Pepper MaShay &amp; DJ Corey D - Does Your Mamma Know (You're A Freak) (DJ Cubanito Klubjumbers E 
"  Cold and clammy treatment is being given to this issue....by this current govt.

Du30, lo "
"DOLSaturdays 
Kids K-Pop with Jazz  
GForce GDC
GDCAlabang 
GForceDanceCenter 
 @ G- "
Ok then! They took the dance floor to another level  
  When do yall be having these dance sessions?
 the safety dance cover by sleeping at last
"Con is lit, dance til u puke"
people are always shitting on him joon and jin bc they arent as good as jimin gguk hob and tae (unofficial 4th da 
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF ITS THEIR LAAAAYSYSYUSSUHSHS BLACKPINK 
"hyunjin, i smell a dance cover "
" But, alot kfans said boss team did better than 7th sense 7th sense have difficult dance and song bcoz m "
I WANT YOU GUYS TO DANCE LIKE IF ITS YOUR LAAAST!! 
sing or dance?  sing  
"Cold and clammy treatment is being given to this issue....by this current govt.

Du30, locsin, the AFP, the CoastGu "
Now playing Straight To The Bank by Bill Summers music best hits rock pop dance on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Je m'adore [Rico Bernasconi Remix] by Serhat on 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Under My Thumb by The Rolling Stones on  
  I left the Labour Party over their pro-Brexit stance. You seem to have a real issue with 
        
"  Haan kyuki wo kaam to Tujhe Diya h na Bhadwe. I can even sing, dance, do comedy and write scripts. "
I just want to dance tho...
"Or post dinner drinks, with the intent to go to the dance in the evening? Anyone/any grads who want to attend who n "
"Awesome dance near by me.
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 190TLdenTTVerilir RanjanGogoi ShabEBarat BharatThisEid  MeToo "
"Come one,come all See the finest girl in France make an entrance to entrance Dance la Esmeralda....... Dance!!"
"[GRAVITY x K?] BLACKPINK KILL THIS LOVE DANCE COVER CONTEST WITH Kia   via 
KILLTHISLOVE BLACKPINK"
"A NEW DANCE CRAZE CALLED ""THE JUGG WALK"" IS HEATING UP IN THE STREETS OF NYC!     "
"I needa boo that wants to go out and get lit from time to time, dance the night away, then go home and get intimate."
i wish i could get back into dance but i think its too late. ive been out of the game for six years &amp; i probably 
i literally cannot sleep because i cant get over yoongi and how he is not in dance line?? what the FUCK HEs so goo 
Chinese Character ForDance  
"&lt;&lt;the walls fall down
We will never stop, we will never stop
'Cause we are free
Everybody dance 'til your Kingdom c "
"&lt;&lt;risen
Our God is alive in us
Shout it out, shout it out
He is risen
Our God is alive

Shout it out, shout it ou "
"&lt;&lt;Everybody shout 'til the walls fall down
We will never stop, we will never stop
'Cause we are free
Everybody danc "
"&lt;&lt;shout it out
He is risen
Our God is alive in us
Shout it out, shout it out
He is risen
Our God is alive

Shout "
Really messing with Slow Dance by  produced by  Wish we could do a remix for real email: nathanq3
  On the other side it is also possible that CJI is being implicated by BJP as it is well 
Can memorize a dance move/routine by just watching it once or twice
"You say I'm the center of your whole wide world
I'll always be my daddy's girl
You danced me across the kitchen flo "
" Nah bruh we cant cancel the whoa cause then mfs who cant dance, like me, will have nothing."
"Get ready for Mahira Khan's dance number

LollywoodFilms MahiraKhan ParayHutLove SheheryarMunawar MayaAli 
Sho "
"first day at work today in 3 months, what a journey thats been. surprised i am still alive but heres to living, lets dance xx "
Jonathan Garcia - God's Great Dance Floor Spanish
The Boys Dance practice  
Have a great easter  bangs bristolbeenbangedeggseatfeelsickpartydancedrinkgotothegymenjoyblessedlovelife 
Hear Classic Rock and Pop Oldies favs like  The Beach Boys - Do You Wanna Dance and other 1950 thru 2010+ Hits PLUS 
Hear Classic Rock and Pop Oldies favs like  The Beach Boys - Do You Wanna Dance and other 1950 thru 2010+ Hits PLUS 
Hear Classic Rock and Pop Oldies favs like  The Beach Boys - Do You Wanna Dance and other 1950 thru 2010+ Hits PLUS 
Hard to be sad at a funeral ba dlala sgubu  gaah'damnit I'm finna cry not dance.
Ants in my pants and I need to dance I got ants in my pants and I need to dance Whoo!
  Do the dance!
"I'm no angel, can't you see?
I've got nothing that you need
My misfortune dance with me
I'm no angel

Im No Angels "
 Boi you got Rose Madden to go with you to the 8th grade dance. Your heat stroke powers can ignite the love in any woman.
if ros says dance like it's your last then u better dance like it's your laST
im mad that the boys didnt do the dance from IDBITC on stage what
"ROSE: THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASSSDTNDKDNTJRTNTKTN
 "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np So Far Away by Dire Straits on  
 But did you win the dance battle?
        
Imaging lisa also got dance performance there *0*  BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 LALISA 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Fernando by ABBA on  
Cant wait for a dance with the girls tonight 
"looking back now, i really regret giving up on dance. i wish i found another team. i really really loved dancing, e "
 my dance partner invited me to go out tonight and I couldnt go 
"Throwback

To,
2016

repost 
The world must really think we're absolutely cray cray ! musically "
Olajumoke Orisaguna Vows To Dance 'Chacha' Always As Harrysong Gifts Her N400k  
There is till time to book onto our fun and interactive Dance and Wiggle course.  To book just follow the link or c 
Let's go baby and dance now In The Stars (Galaxy Mix) by Icona Pop on  
CLASS CANCELLATION: Technique Training with East London Youth Dance company has been cancelled this Saturday 20th A 
"New Entry  

ItalianWeeklyPlaylist IWP playlist playlistitaly club disco "
WHO LET THIS AHJUMMA DANCE??? 
"Oh, baby! Dance dance Angelic!!
Oh, baby! Dance dance Angelic!!
Oh, baby! Dance dance Angelic!!
wow...

Beat in Angel/."
"Monday 22nd April - Easter Swing at Sway edition! Swing at Sway Great classes &amp; killer tunes for Lindy Hoppers, Jit "
  And dance...
"Eat, drink, dance, be merry - and do all of this with your mates at TimeOffFestivals at Tonbridge Castle! 

3rd-5t "
Tap Dance 3 Incipio iPhone Wallet Case 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Virginia Plain by Roxy Music on  
"Onto the veil of consciousness
The projection of reality
Behind which sits my soul
With popcorn and a beer
Watching "
"Working the shift in 11 dance bars, countless clients and trips to Dubai later, 24-year-old approaches court to hel "
"Ros: dance like if it is your LAASSSSST 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
 "
  The spinoff should focus on the universe's increasing envy of K'Vort's epic life. He t 
"Private Dance Lessons! 
We can arrange private lessons where you will have a dedicated teacher providing 1-to-1 tea "
"And so, you begin your day with youthful enthousiasm and unreasonable optimism, singing  under your breath, gigglin "
 Your wife wants to think herself lucky. My boyf started singing the poo poo train is coming to the s 
"dead,I can't remember shit I read to make up for cluelessness instead,the only women I'll get is in a dream I dream "
" People should not be pushed to do things they do not want to. Pushed to think, is another thing. Humans so "
"Fire tears through South Yorkshire florists and dance studio, destroying building "
THE DLOOR DANCE NOOOOKC
Rosies gonna clown everyone and post about the DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST line yall made a meme dndjkdkd
"So, Dangerous / UP10TION 
&lt; Dance Practice &gt;
"
32) can you dance or sing? i can sing better than dance but i'm not any good at either
 maybe i can see u guys before u go??? also are u guys leaving sunday bc u guys should do sunday funday w me and dance to house
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Brasil Connect
 - Quintino
 "
   Creating Jobs and atmosphere of business is a key to any welfare state. Once peo 
I just published DANCE DAY 
jimin shldnt b allowed to dance bruh
Happy Easter gang! Here is the moment full time members got their Easter eggs.  
Oh man I feel so bad. My water plug asked if I wanted to dance and then he goes probably not... and he was right. 
 Okay Srinivas. Send any other mahesh dance videos
NowPlaying Cheryl Reid - Cum On The Dance Floor :: Tune In: 
" Charles Dance can play as Highfather.
"
Yesterday was a good day. My passion poem bout PontyVCardiff was on telly at the exact same time I was on stage at 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Crossroads by Various Artists on  
" In my OP, I stated that they were courting, but upon reading up on speckled wood behaviour, it appears on "
 Its one of them where I know we needed score so I cant afford to miss. When you see me dance aro 
I needs me a Latina to dance w///// me
 When this came out some megxiters said it was the wind
"It took them years to even admit Beyonce was one of the greatest performer, now that  they can't fight it they say "
"Yeasterday I was here and it was almost 89,9 m views and when I woke up this morning there is already 90 m  I stan "
"Always runnin' up the grind!

Work
Music
Dance
Rockstars
blackgirlmagic
DigitalModel

 "
If onces manage to get miss FANCY to 55-60m in 24 hours I will honestly do a dance cover of any title track and I'm 
" Overeem: Dance mother fucker
Ariel: bu.. bu.. but I dont want to
Overeem: I SAID DANCE!!! 
Ariel: *sniffled OK Alistair"
"MUM LISTEN TO ME OR ILL MAKE YOU! 

houdini HoudiniDancing cat cats catlovers love black blackcat "
  This is best new year wish ! Did they play or dance on any of BTS number.. i wonder? Sh 
SO I WONT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAHASSST
  I honestly would of lost maahhh ishhh  like I would of lost it!!!! Would of broke down into a s 
dance like its ur last is blink version of i don't know what time it is
    Well I mean she kind of didn't mate. It took a hell of a lot of pre 
Those big jiggly things that are different colors that would dance and it was a kids show please help
In Birmingham Thursday May 2nd?   celebrates dance on film with REACH by  &amp;   OTHER by 
  Jungkook always the best and amazing.his voice always beautiful smooth and stable and  everyt 
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAAAASSST
 Naah it doesnt count can he sing and dance too!!?
"Told the devil stop trying
The flow got Twitter stock flying
Till I switch platforms 
Buy the church some heels
Sho "
" I love him, and I think he is the ONLY person who can get away with a moose knuckle on the dance floor, aside from urkle lol"
"I should probably learn to dance as well.

My Mantra: Appreciate life, Show gratitude, Love and Respect everyone.  "
 Pump it up a little more feel the party going on the dance floor youll see cause thats where the party 
"Me: BTS' Dance steps are getting easier
Dionysus: im here"
 There's a chapter in loveisbutadream where a woman tells me she would dance a jig on her ex husband's grave. The 
"i was tryna reenacting emperor's new clothes by p!atd's dance but when i'm trying to do the sudden headbang thingy, "
"A ""dinomaniac"" is someone with the compulsive urge to dance  That term can also be used to describe someone who is obsessed with dinosaurs."
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby In The Stars (Galaxy Mix) by Icona Pop on  
DANCE COVER - (JIMIN SERENDIPITY BTS)  via 
"I swear to God that I didn't need ""Remember's"" dance practice just when I was about to go to bed.   "
 Please send flower star  dance videos
"Dance fuckers Dance
no you never had a chance"
"we're flirting, kissing, but no hands
you like to move, i like to dance"
"Binge Netflix 
Watch a horror movie 
Dance to music 
Truth or dare 
Eat candy &amp; yummy snacks 
Have a cute phot "
Adele - Rolling In The Deep  TheBlast  Dance 
DANCE RACHA  I'M SO SO SO SO SO SAD 
 They will once they get to hear you sing and see you doo your little dance
Apparently she's claiming that she invented and taught the dental hygiene dance to the backpack kid  
"Fortnite Dance Battle ? 
fortnitevbucks fortnitesolo memes fortnitecommunity fortnitefunny fortnitememe "
   Lovely beat. melody/ good love song/ good dance tune.
"Watch Taeyeon Perfectly Nail Every Dance Routine From PUBG

"
she said dance like its ur last so yall better DANCE LIKE ITS UR LASTTSMHGSG!!!! 
Lets take a dance class while I'll never wake up in a good mood again.
I dont know what song to drop next....should I pop out this funky dance/pop track or should I drop some west coast 
dancey dance
"Sometimes I need that romance, sometimes I need that poll dance, sometimes I need that stripper thats gon tell me that she dont dance"
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino A Different Corner by George Michael on  
This bank holiday weekend take a look at the AEP 2-day skills exchange weekenders in Sheffield 25/26 May or York 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Give The People What They Want by The O'Jays on 
       
This isnt at all to say you cant dance and have fun and laugh and be silly but also I know what yalls type are thinking.
"um. ppl, are weird with queers in public spaces and i dont wanna particpate. im 100 not trying 2 dance with ur man so je can vote4bernie"
this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody tO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
if I never hear genesis and last dance live I might just cry for the rest of my life
 Dude send mahesh dance videos
Hey. The new  album fuckin bops. Now he needs to come to Iowa so I can get drunk and dance my ass off to it live.
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASGHJGHJCJJDDJJFTTT
5 minutes after tweeting this there was a dance off. What is legion?
 My lesson got mentioned in a positive way during our Ofsted feedback from out executive principal it w 
" What does me is where he goes to shoot first time, thinks nah fuck it Ill dance around this prick "
  That Jimin dance gif 
" 

Appears.

   He just pushed a tree out of boredom too.

          ""Are you bored too Nezuko""? "
"First of all,my dance is a messbut i enjoy dancing to this song..sorry kkkk  MirohChallenge "
" Haha yess, i really like your dance! And i'm also a huge enthu of Dalla Dalla "
"Ros:      DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR !!!
Me: "
" The dance in the video is zapin too, right?"
Halloween Michael Jackson Skeleton Men T-shirt Funny Humour shirt Moonwa  
"""We should consider each day lost, on which we don't dance at least once."" Friedrich Nitzsche
inspirational quotes "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Vandaag by Bakermat on  
Im a mess today is a mess i have dance later help me
i wANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST 
"Maymay's dance interpretation of ""On The Wings Of Love"" will leave you breathless! Watch AGAIN the full performance "
What  is  the  price  of  Experience?  do  men  buy  it  for  a  song? Or wisdom  for  a  dance  in  the  street? 
"AIR OF THE NIGHT
IF U FEEL IT IF U WANNA DANCE U GOTTA SMOOTH STEP
TETETTETTET TETETET TETETETETET~"
The Weeknd - Earned it / Secret Dance couple  via 
 Anna please send top notch mahesh  dance videos
so i want everybody to dance like it's your LAST! 
"Why this looks like the dance from that Doja cat song

bijj i'm a cow bijj i'm a cow~

BLACKPINK LISA

"
"Hes so bossy, he makes me dance. Tryna sit in the back of his whip &amp; just cancel my plans. Sweet like candy .... b "
"Day 6 : creativity day 

Today is your free day draw , paint , play music and dance to it , basically do anything "
"Reminder that one year ago today, we lost one of the greatest artists of this generation. Avicii redefined the enti "
"When you miss ATEEZ and feel the emptiness in the city of Milan and dance Say_My_Name and HalaHala, laugh but in "
"Whats On !!
1: pm Vintage Fashion Show with ReInvintaged 
Jam &amp; Cream Scones, Coffee &amp; Tea tickets7.50
2:30-5:30 "
Making of - Earned it Secret Dance Couple  via 
"i just opened twt and the first thing i saw is ros screaming on top of her lungs so everyone would dance to as if its your last,, i CANNOT"
them babies.   dance 
Adesso in onda RICHENEL - DANCE AROUND THE WORLD
Lmao my cousin was about to fight a dude for trying to dance with me at the club  MyCousinsAreCrazy
got to admit yyq have both strength in vocal and dance 
"First Dance by Mr Kuu, 395  acrylicpainting Art "
Bruh this stripper is drunk as hell walking around the stage and hasnt done a single dance move for 5 minutes... 
"Alright!  getting ready to G-A-Y bar tonight!  who's gonna watch? Have some clips, bitches!  "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby I Wanna Go by Britney Spears on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: The Strangest Thing 97 by George Michael on  
"dancevocal unit WhiteA

Light Up My World

Youtube :

whitea  "
"Todays interview cut on Music Core! 

BTS shows their point dance in Boy With Luv and took some cute Selcas as we "
"So when this one popped up in front of me in the summer of 2016 I did a little dance of joy. A very little one, so "
"Rosie sounds like she is ready to fight  
When she said dance, YOU FCKN DANCE!!!  "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np My Favorite Mistake by Sheryl Crow on  
 Painful facts: my daughter loved The Macarena.  My neighbours kept playing it in the evening &amp; the b 
"May I have this dance? 

- me to a freshly opened packed of thinly sliced turkey at 2 AM."
        
I really have this soft spot for dancing (more than studying LOL). Di ako magaling sumayaw pero since elem gusto ko 
"Dance as if it's your LASSSSTTT!!!  sige mga next year, practice muna ako ksbsksbsjsjs "
"It's a 90s club pop mix, it sure attracts the crowd on the dance floor."
"no one:
ros: I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST"
On the  Burn the Floor sets a new standard of dance theatre 
Dance Gavin Dance was really hot I had a great birthday
 Killing it as always! Thank you for dancing to On The Floor. I love that dance! 
"THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASFSJSKS
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"
"HAPPY BIRTHDAY to my travel companion, co-worker x3, trivia teammate, dance partner, concert pal, co-mom, past roo "
UGHHH... IM WANT TO FUCKING DANCE 
"LALISA 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
Her move, her dance. All of her killing me. SLAY~~~~ "
"190420 Show! Music Core

Bangtan babies doing the point dance of Boy with Luv!

BTS  BoyWithLuv  
"
 A halfpenny could have lead to a lapp dance
Why give my belly an ache when I can give it some dance 
Why will I eat spaghetti when I can just dance it? 
 Noodle dance is the jam
everyone stop what youre doing right now and look at joonies cute little poses and his signature dance 
 Time to Dance and Turn Off the Lights
"I love what dance music has done for me. I traveled to Australia, Germany, Netherlands, England, France, Cleveland, "
" Well it's normal. Dance videos will always get more views. People can watch a dance video, dance moves mul "
"Here is a teaser video for RYAN CANDAs 2-days Dance Workshop in Butuan City. 

LIMITED SLOTS ONLY
RATE
P "
DANCE BITCH SHE SAID 
3:23am &amp; Homecoming got me wanting to get up &amp; dance with yonce. I need sleep lmao
Lifes not about waiting for the storm to pass its about learning to dance in the fucking rain
" This dance has to learnt respek... I even took off my sleepers, thinking thingggzz will improve. Yhe "
[DANCE COVER] () The Weeknd - Earned It  | Kaeun Lee &amp; S.whistle X J...  via 
Listen to Mirakali's title 'Dreaming Of Your Kiss'     
Dance for you  
HYUNJIN FOLLOWING THE DANCE PART OMG STAYARMY NATION WE WON AGAIN  
lul is funny watching wypepo dance
"Moonbin posted the ""remember"" dance practice vid ohmygod"
how can you say i cant dance when i can fucking ace the rasputin dance on just dance 2
" Thankyou for this~!!!welcome to the fandom
The 9th
amigo tv
weekly idol
idol room
Asc:apr 3, "
RUPAUL - Supermodel (You Better Work)  TheBlast  Dance 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Knas
 - Steve Angello
 "
ros: DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR FUCKING LAST
HYUNJIN WITH BTS BOY IM ALIVE HYUNJIN WANTED TO DANCE TOO AWWWWHHH 
"Fellow white girls:

Its really fucking cringey when you choose to dance obnoxiously while laughing while black mu "
        
"  I request you to plz conduct the raid by mumbai CP Spl Squad or Crime branch.
Because "
"  Not better than Rogue One, but I enjoyed solo"
 dance the night away
I dont even watch dance moms and I just laid here for hours watching clips of it on YouTube 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Supercharged by Kwanza Jones on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Head Over Feet by Alanis Morissette on  
"What a night for a dance, 
you know I'm a dancing machine."
hopekook are always so smiley and giggly and ready to dance. whenever.  my babies 
Ready for the main day!  Debutant Combi 1 and Duo 2 today! wheelchair dance paradance disability sport 
"rosie in sk: i'm rosie and i'm a chimpunk

rosie in la: I SAID DANCE BTCHES DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST"
todays fun fact: riley and seann are the only two people connected to catsdown to do strictly. they were both pair 
IF SHE SAID DANCE AS ITS YOUR LAST THEN DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST BITCHES 
" That's the Reggae dance of APC,no good stuff comes out of them"
its really crazy that this is how i dance now 
"I dont even dance at parties anymore BUT if you see me this summer dancing.

JUST KNOW "
"



""...I wonder where Nezuko went""...

 "
"My darling theres a place for us.
Darling.
Cmon, will you dance, my darling?
You keep your eyes fixed on the hig "
"I love dance music. Any time of the day, any genre, just love it. Non stop "
"And for the record. My take is that arresting  for Kronos, is like arresting a kid for stealing pic "
"  Ahhha! I was finding this why pidis brooke this story.
Ge will announce next date and these "
You are pure; remember to please : dance and sing to a song you love   namaste
IF OUR ROS SAYS DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST THE FUCKING DANCE AS IF IT'S YOU LAST!!!!!!!!!!!
I owe that Gugulethu song all my crazy dance moves soon 
The first one is the truth what Eritreans live right now in Libya and the second one those who dance by the sound o 
" Beyonc that has not even invented a dance move yet. Even after MI death, his signature break dance is still trending."
Tonight's mood is the Gay Pining (tm) anthem Slow Dance With You from adventure time
Lets go aripink! Dance like its your last!!
The white boy behind Ricky with dreads.. Cannot dance. Why white people should not be allowed near us. More those w Matted ass hair
"Im at the point of my life where if I dance with a cute girl, Im either keeping someones friend from wandering o "
"Phats &amp; Small / Funky House The Essential Horny House Selection
1999   2 CD
Funky / Club / Dance / House "
Fuck Dance Dance Revolution Konamix
I think this Saturday dance (?)  should be part of everyones  routine today.   
" Is ""tetema"" a dance style or a song? Afande oratwiita na comedy"
"That one fandom thinks their favs are the only who could write, compose, produce songs, sing live and dance when th "
Ive been binge watching dreamcatcher dance practice i need help
(little bit of that) So this song is called As If Its Your Last! (little bit of this) So I want everybody!!!! to d 
Dance for eternity (Radio Edit)Kai tracid
 more like dance practice time!!
"I KNOW WHO TO VOTE: DONGBINHWAN FOR DANCE UNIT!

And of course, JinBob! JINBOB FOR HUG ME GAME: NO FIGHTING FOR THE "
 madam you now classical dance
" You mean, after the ""python dance"" in the east when there was palava?
After his nepotistic appointments "
A soire of classical dance and music in Bengaluru - Times of India  Bengaluru
"Come and see Lovely's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: star Dance  
 "
"Theres two types of people, those who can fold fitted elastic sheets and those who can dance to all of Beyoncs h "
Megs dance style is admired across the internet ....
"If you are having your wedding today make sure you tell the DJ to play you, By You by  Simi Ft Adekunle "
"  Choosing between fried shit and boiled shit is technically a choice too, but theyre both "
 Damn it sucks that the party got shut down I was having a good day time and tryna dance witchu
Dance to this ~ EcstaticDance SpiritualPractice MusicIsMedicine Meditation 
Now playing One by U2 music best hits rock pop dance on  
The heat in Phoenix gmfu  Im just trynna dance and not get a heat stroke 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby She Don't Let Nobody by Chaka Demus &amp; Pliers on 
rock pop dance classic hits now: On Every Street by Dire Straits on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np All American Girls by Sister Sledge on  
Tomorrow night come dance with me  ... this will officially my last birthday celebration for this year. 
"Let's be sincere, is only a song with  voice you can sleep listening to, dance to it, shake to it, just "
Darren's suitemate walked in on me doing a cripplingly embarrassing improv dance to make Darren laugh &amp; it's moment 
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella "
ya boy just got a lap dance how's your night going
so this song is called as if it's your last so i want everybody to dance LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST
So excited to have some drinks and a dance with my pals later 
"HANDSOME BOIIIII, he was (is) breathtaking, i was impressed by his dance skills too, i liked his style "
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Rock The Boat by Forrest on  
MJ that invented a dance step that will stay with us for ever and even people had to wear his costume when they wan 
I shoulda entered that twerk contest  400 fuckin dollars lol I cant dance for tho
i had a dream i was bffs with shuhua from idle.. and I was training to become the new member (??) i had to dance to 
Now playing Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now) / C + C Music Factory by Various!
Gotta learn this poco Lee dance before I die
 I cant dance in that state.
.  are 2nd on the ARIA Dance Single Chart for WHO DO YOU LOVE WhoDoYouLove 
I think the hate she's getting for this is so unnecessary. Not everyone can dance well or be overtly sexy. Let her 
"Happy Easter FAM!!
.
.
  FINALLY OUT ..New Music
.
.
 "" LET THERE BE LIGHT""  By Tru South...... Is ready for dow "
 Before that we need to sue Ilhoon  this scammer knows to dance to evry othr songs but his own lmao 
 Still Just dance was released on april and applause on august...soo
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Move Me
 - Mura Masa Ft. Octavian
 "
"yo b,, let's go fucking slow dance to some music while I'm in my prom birthday dress then later, change into sum ba "
"as if its your last so everybody, i want you to dance like as IF ITS YOUR LAST"
The dj plays city girls at the club @ Gabby tries to dance battle some gay 
"that tiny dance on the interview stage, and the heavy breathing wink oh my goodness"
THE LITTLE DANCE
watching people dance in the studio makes my heart  but also 
I cant wait to see olly bust out his dance moves on tour 
"Im prepared to dance for you guys, just drop the date    "
 hanasake mirai dance practice pls .
"Opportunity only jives with those already on the dance floor.

Do it
Do it 

Yoga Teacher Training starts Monday an "
we all deserve to see baekhyun doing that pubg dance
"Me: Wait isnt she in this dance?

Lisa: Rose, youre literally in this dance.. "
They did the point dance 
So this was in October of 18 and youll notice that Van is doing Jimins fan dance. Jimin does the dance in Decemb 
 Let our sober girlies dance skss
LETS GO DANCE LEGENDS
AWWW THEYREDOING THE DANCE
SO CUTE AND ITS TOO CRAMPED TO DANCE
  If I attend your tutorial I'll never know how to dance this zanku till Jesus come! Happy Easter
"black transgender women face the highest 
levels of fatal violence of all the LGBTQ+ community 
dust swirls dance with a tumbleweed"
" come a little closer - cage the elephant 
dance with me - beabadoobee
katchup - dalsooobin"
"Aretha Franklin - Another Night (12"" Dance Mix)"
Fuck. Shoulda stayed there. We migrated to the dance party bar and it's deafening and kind of awful. At least the o 
Nigga dance like Bill Cosby  
"Dance, and make joyous the love around you. Dance, and your veils which hide the Light shall swirl in a heap at you "
  oh god I CANT DANCE SIS
 This is just as dangerous as allowing kids to dance in front of an open fire ??? This clubs reputation sh 
"On Now  Drakefeat.Wizkid&amp;Kyla - One Dance 
 - "
" If you doubt it, go find out how much MJ has made evn being dead. Allegations or Not, Mans made so much "
 Soshi kims and their love to dance in public
"Why does this remind me of bst dance

BTS BloodSweatTears GoldenEra ARMY
ArmyfollowArmy
 "
"Women, don't ask me to dance because I will be putting a baby inside of you if I do start getting ""down"" on the dance floor"
Smart Precious Love Be Kind Dance Sing Hi Dream
It was some nights that we had to dance with the devil..
"I have decided to free myself, dance into the wind and create a new language..."
Who Do You Love is 2(-1) on the ARIA Dance Singles Chart WhoDoYouLove 
Fyfe Star Up next Whenever Youre Ready - one of their last ones I think? Theyve got their dance routines down to a T.... TOTP
I believe ozone depletion is best described by this one quote from Oprah: 'Every day brings a chance for you to dra 
Dance warmly!
"Life's show time!!
Dance tonight!!
Life's show time!!
Wow wow wow..."
"I like you now, i'm so sorry tonight, i want to dance with you "
Shorty dance like a video vixen
"""Because I'm still in love with you 
I want to see you dance again"""
What's up? dance with me!
Don't forget about the dance thoo 
I want to dance on stage with Haru-kun (**) In a candy and sweets themed pop type stage!!
"""this song is called As If It's Your Last SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAASGDGST""
a esto )( de "
craving a lap dance
"Guru Randhawa ft. Pitbull, Slowly Slowly  Bhushan Kumar, DJ Shadow, Blackout, Vee, DJMoneyWillz "
Conforme se va creciendo la frase dance like nobady is watching tiene mucho sentido
PLEASE click view    media actor writers author stories child mum dad parent 
I challenge you to a dance off
Brandon Can't Dance  Me Inside Here
 Ive often enjoyed a bit of a dance with the dusting lol 
"Lyrics MyAmerica by  JoeNormal &amp; The anytownrs 
.
We dance along the river,
Hidden from the view
Of streets and "
 Great time at your show tonight in D.C. &amp; I highly recommend the tour. My fav dance was about the strug 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Buk
 - Afro Bros
 "
NO BIN YOU DID NOT JUST!!!!! THAT DANCE!!!!! THAT'S BEEN HAUNTING ME FOR MONTHS!!!!! BIN!!!!!!!
come here let me dance for you 
Music make her dance and money make her smile.
Bruh the crazy thing is he knew the whole dance for this song  
 I miss those drunk Irvin indie dance moves
"The struggle is real . I have to take care my nephew who is super duper active , send him to class , I have 2 famil "
"I'll dance, dance, dance
With my hands, hands, hands,
Above my head, head, head"
"ros in korea:    
ros in america: WASSUP COACHELLA MAKE SOME GOD DAMN NOISE DANCE LIKE AS "
When you are straight no one can bend you.if you dance to vested interests then you should be ready for all these . 
i started dancing at a dance academy when i was 3 and have danced for most of my life @ bts pls hire me as a choreographer
Has anyone ever seen me dance? This is exactly what happens 
"JUDGEMENT DAY IF  TOUCH THIS SONG!!   get him on this.

"
WOW MOONBIN REALLY CAME TO THROW AT US THAT DANCE PRACTICE AND GO
"It's April 20, 2019 at 03:17AM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
Fort Worth is fun and all but nobody knows how to dance 
" Absolutely, hope they will sing and dance on our behalf."
YALL ITS THE DANCE LINE (YES WITH MIN YOONGI CHEONJE JJANG JJANG MAN BBOONG BBOONG) 
Why is this me pretending to dance while laying on my bed at 3 am 
"Aaron Copland - ""Rodeo (Four Dance Episodes): Hoe-down"""
Cant believe the old dance studio I grew up in burnt down last night 
this might be a hot take but is the woah dance gonna get cancelled ever? shit be fun af too but its too easy and t 
"I love how white ppl dance. They look so ridiculous, but they have so much fun "
  His dance moves lined up perfectly with the song I'm listening to!
 a friend of mine played me some disco gospel from the late 70s once. It wasn't too terrible. I thin 
So I want everybody to dance like it it is your LAAaaaaAAAAaaaaSSSSssst 
Awful news for the owners of these businesses to wake up to this morning 
hyunjins signature dance move (2019) 
"CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM NATIONAL MUSIC MELA AT PNCA 2019
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND "
Watch: The Dance Routines That Made the BYU Cougarettes 2019 National ChampionsTwice 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Get Ugly by Jason Derlo on  
Saturday.....Raining in the 614.Live a little.Perhaps dance in the rain.Go out and do something.Wear a poncho. 
"New on the Happy Dance Hits playlist: ""Comatose"" by Nicolas Haelg  housemusic upbeat "
"No one:

Ros: IF YOU DON'T DANCE I'LL HIT YOU WITH THE DDDD MFS!!

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
"New on the Happy Dance Hits playlist: ""Obsessed"" by Dynoro, Ina Wroldsen  housemusic "
 Dead Robots Can Dance
"If you can't dance, pretend you're a robot ! motivation"
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAS
Im just TOO excited for EOGM 5th Annual Praise Dance &amp; Mime Explosion at West Angeles Performing Arts Theatre in L 
"When Im learning  dance choreography Im getting better at it, micdrop idol springday fire still pract "
 dropped a new dance video so if you need me Ill be in my room watching it on repeat
idk whyy but i just stronglyyy dislike that song man on the dance floor ?? tht i keep hearing while i wait for bts 
ROS TO THE CROWD: THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF ITS THEIR LASTSHHHJHNS 
Back at it tonight with Save The Yuppies!!! Welcome Easter and dance to the beats of   &amp; 
"Sunshine!  The weather is clear make your body move, I wanna dance with you ! Miss Lisaj xx"
Music always feels better with you and of course belvederevodka leading tonights dance charlo_uk  round3 07787 4 
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
 4 months with band practice. 4 months with dance practice. I can only imagine how good her team really is as individuals.
" Beyonce wey I like few songs but Mj all the songs in my head, he is a performer, and lyricist, my uncle "
Van Halen - Dance the Night Away
" Congratulations King  Seokjin 

We love you  your vocals are so beautiful in this new album  it's so s "
"The Strobe! by Akinkunmi Cook  Minimal, Dance, Electronic, Club, ""Deep House"", ""Tech House"" "
Streaming NOW:  replay industrial goth dance witch experimental gothradio wormwood 
 Dancing all night with my dance crew because we have a big international battle in popping and locking  W 
Now Playing Dance The Bop by The Jordimars On 
"when ros says dance, u guys should fUckinG DANCE!!!"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: A Question Time by Depeche Mode on  
" Jajajaj I'm not talking about this dance , also I'm Seulgi Stan I know years ago Seulgi it was very ca "
"Terrance: I'll beat you at any of these games.
Me: Bet pick a random game.
Terrance picks dance dance revolution"
"Maymay's dance interpretation of ""On The Wings Of Love"" will leave you breathless! Watch AGAIN the full performance "
Coma Row  - Dance (The Night Away)
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : I Got Love
 - Don Diablo Ft. Nate Dogg
 "
Cough* tour cough* dates* cough* BTSARIANO1
"WORLD OF DANCE NIGERIA IS HERE!!!
.
.
The World of Dance Nigeria advisory board includes  , "
waking up at Ungodly hours to support my boys I can deal with but having to endure Man on The Dance Floor every mor 
"i watched the Dionysus for the first time today, and i don't know what i am feeling right now. it feels like I was "
"Henley here we come with speakers: Lynne Nash, Bhavna Barratt, Susanna Beard and Rebecca Dance - "
WHEN ROS SAYS DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST SHE SOUNDS LIKE SHE IN BRING IT ON
Just met Lakeith Stanfield in a warehouse party in Brooklyn...what is life?! But he can't out dance me tho 
You dance so stiff lol
the ultimate beta and the dance and ending don't really know what it truly is.
  room to dance?! i'll visit you sometime for that if room to dance exists lol
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Womanizer by Britney Spears on  
"Well, this is so 2017, but how can we let a Davao event pass without the ""now-traditional"" Budots Dance Challenge. "
"8 photo one day answer  share 
youtube
dance
music
BreakingNews
BREAKING
YouTuber Mikh "
 What do you mean people? He doesnt know how to dance so what .. you dont know either yet your mom must w 
"""everybody dance like it is your last""

YAS KWEEN
"
when dance / contends with psychotics / dance can be changed / because psychotics get cool
"the music blasting from the dance hall was seeping into the check-in table, but now you face the full wrath of..... high fantasy edm!?"
 Amen to that my sweet sis~if God is for us who can be against us~lets dance bigest hugs &amp; Love coming your way ... 
"Learn Zanku Dance In Few Seconds

"
Actual footage of Gummy using my bladder as a bouncy toy during the dance party. 
If i could just go to a bar or to dance a little by myself i would.
" Hope you're dancing a Snoopy dance!
"
And I do a massive victory dance at work to celebrate that
 Bro ask any small kid to dance like MJ they will do it and they have never seen him before.....
"S3E03: A lot of shit happens in this episode, really. Betty meets Henry, Don meets Hilton, Peggy smokes her first j "
"P L A Y  H A R D... just  perks me up..
and YOUNGBIN's rap part and his smooth dance moves.. make it more extra sp "
"bro i had a dream that i took half a mdma pill and i swear to god i remember myself violently waking up, getting up "
hi just wanted to let y'all know dance academy is the best show ever. periodt.
  Nice Dance 
  Now that is a happy dance!
Love love LOVE Tywins last scene but sad to lose Charles Dance from the cast. We will not see his like again.
Man On The Dance floorBTS
     Were you initiating the chicken dance with the audience? 
" I can do that too, I love it, I'm the same with dancing, I can put on a song that I choreographed to "
We got a hashtag  PersonaAUSNumber1
"CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM NATIONAL MUSIC MELA AT PNCA 2019
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND "
"im a rabbit now 
*start to dance*

whyyyy!!!!!! youre so cuteeeeeee!!!  my heart "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Roda by Gilberto Gil on  
this man on the dance floor is good ??
 Pls teach me how to dance
"Dance dance revolution, LETS GO MUTHERFOCKER to Kyle."
ATARASHII DANCE WOOOOOoo
 I know you're probably getting ready for your performance tonight so please look at this and dance with jo 
    can tell you more about what Seb Dance &amp;co have don 
"    When 4 judges held that press conference, the judiciary was not und "
     Thought that too. Gary must have a choreographer teaching him dance
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
Man on the dance floor kinda remind me of a ff where Jimin is a bar attender and also a dancer and one day Yoongi visit that bar 
 jin on the dance floor
please....i don't want to watch man on the dance floor anymore....her voice is nice but.....don't wanna see it anymore...
"Every media platform played his songs throughout and talked about him for weeks. He was that powerful.
Every kid I "
"Coleen Nolan - she can't dance, even if shes in the mood too...."
"You are amazing, your voice is stable when you dance. You can interact with the audience, dancing like fire Your c "
Went to a legit dance class today and I popped some bones I didnt even know existed tbh
"""Opportunity dances with those who are already on the dance floor."" Jackson Brown quote"
Airbus is teaching jetliners to dance with robots in Hamburg  via 
I really hope they play aCtUaL good music at prom and not just rap and stuff cuz Im tryna dance and have a gr8t time
 Will you guest star on So You Think You Can Dance as a judge again?
good morning im in a good mood so im dancing and listening to nvthvn u guys should also dance and listen to nvthvn
I'm obsessed w Man on the Dance Floor. OBSESSED.
i refuse to listen to this man on the dance floor song again.... please
man on the dance floor is giving me fosse vibes
"I laughed, I cried, I wanted to dance my ass off ! SomeoneGreat"
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Bromance by Tim Berg on  
MAN ON THE DANCE FLOOR IS BACK
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Accidents Will Happen by Elvis Costello on  
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASFRNF
  See his movie Seher it's about the illegal railways contracts in UP . No song n dance bu 
Can I find a boy that can dance pls
This is clean your room/house and dance w/ the broom/mop music.  
I just want a best friend who wants to drink tequila and dance to sad music
Am I the only one who doesnt get the Stacey Dooley drama? So she dumped her boyfriend for her dance partner on Str 
"nostrils are indigo, asters are greenyellow, bread is messed up and so is your dance moves"
so i need everybody to dance like itS YOUR LAAAAGGSGGSGT 
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LiKE ITS YOUR LaAAAAAAAAAGGGHHhSSSSssttTT
Duke will dance  as rangers because they are  quaint collegelife PredictionScript
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS UR 
budots dance with chaelisa and khalid  
" He can't dance 
why don't he train or sth"
i can no longer watch dance videos bc i get was that i no longer dance 
A ring ceremony is an event where two people along with their families decide to merge two families into one and Aa 
"My derring-do allows me to
Dance the rigadoon around you"
ros is so cute yelling and all so the crowd better did dance like its their last
Rose said yall better dance to this old shit real quick son
np : man on the dance floor [Stephanie]
por fin la de man on the dance floor
i want so this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody to dance like its your LAAASTHJKHJJ tatooed on my forehead
"WhatsOn EasterSaturday SouthLondon
Celebration of StGeorge Around The World in  

EasterBunny me "
"""so i want evERYONE TO DANCE, LIKE ITS YOUR LASYFH"" the woman i love"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Never Sleep Alone
 - Kaskade
 "
   We need to change the narrative and speak about what Labour MEPs hav 
 Forever in blue jeans. Money talks but it dont sing and dance and it dont walk. Im a proud gammon!
so everybody dance like it  
I used to dance from 11 to 5 with heels now I can barely walk from my bed to bathroom 
Forcing my cousins and friends to dance like this on my wedding idc mom 
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASHSSJNSSKSBSJSBSUSB
  Best Dance Choreography on First Class song by Pooja Chaudhary (Kalank) beautyngracedanceacademy
Now playing Derek Bell - With Bobbie I'll Dance! Check it out: 
"Elizabeth McGovern -  Countess Cora Crawley from  ""Downton Abbey - stars on the big screen in ""The Chaperone "
"Then, the world offered itself to her prudent joyance
over the tunes of a fragrant zephyr blowing through.
Hesitant "
Is poom poom code for something??? Ass??? Sex appeal??? Dance moves??? 
this was so funnydksksj ros said dance or DIE 
me at the bar on the dance floor every single damn time 
 RDJ can dance to anything 
 im like average height where im from hhh but tallest one in my kpop dance club at my school
Does anyone else want  to go on tour and see how good their gonna dance on stage is it just me?
"Beyoncs documentary made me so disappointed in myself for giving up my passion for dance. Dancing was my escape, "
"Doing the not on call dance and buggering off to Ireland for a few days to drink Guinness, which Im sure will give "
"Murashige's 'Thriller' dance.
 "
"...Saturday April 20 Log Entry 

...the Show for 2019-2020
...[the Great reveal]

...is your Happiness
...your "
Now playing Never Give Up On A Good Thing by George Benson music best hits rock pop dance on  
 The best way to celebrate a catch is dance like Gabbar  TCLIndia PerfectFanContest 
 her swalla dance will always be iconic
The Intuitive Scribe: DANCE WITH FREEDOM   
 I got a weird confession to make~ you got me at first sight with your hair flips. You looked the coolest! 
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
DANCE like its YOUR LAST
Performing Arts and Dance Events in Stockholm:  via   Travel Stockholm Sweden
Waiting for the traditional Ryukyu drum and dance show!!! So excited  
Awful news for the owners of these businesses to wake up to this morning 
Im never gonna get over Ros screeching so dance like its your LAST sjsjsjks
"""We don't have to talk. We don't have to dance. We don't have to smile. We don't have to make friends. It's so nice "
We need 100 Boys &amp; girls for our Urdu cinema film song shoot dor dance performance with Mahira_khan. If you or any 
 tearin up the country night dance floor ??? sorry dont know her
 He also do the star dance.  I ship Taelice
"""Or it could make someone writhe on the spot. This tongue of mine has won over a few favors every now and again and "
Andy was so drunk that while we were dancing bachata he tried to dance norteas lmaoo
So i want everybody to dance like its your last
If u wanna see me dance jus play Kainama   Harmonize mhen I fucks with this jam somuch Js woke up in its mood.
[Alive - Raffey Cassidy] BART Shuffle Freestyle  BART SF Dancerush_Stardom Shuffle Dance
"god tier: likey, tt, cheer up, like ooh ahh, what is love, heart shaker, yes or yes, dance the night away, signal, "
Place often visited: Dance room
"dance king and queen is going to be performing in singapore at the same time tomorrow 
but it was truly difficult "
" Her nicknames are Heekkie (Bunny), Founder (She founded the Loonaverse), and Ambitious Bunny.
 In middle schoo "
"Be a part of India's largest camel fair and enjoy camel dance, camel race, traditional folk performances of loc "
I still got the dance
This queen of expressions bowled us away with her super-energetic dance performance at the Bombay Times Fresh Face 
"Let us dance in the sun, wearing wild flowers in our hair... 
 Susan Polis Schutz
JoyPublicity"
Going back to someones place is always such a strange dance.
   Vedhika va kuda overact panna vechutaan in that scene. Otherwise she' 
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Malatoid The Underground World 077 With Malatoid by Safehouse_Radio 
" Bby did his signature dance while mc-ing uwu 
*vid for reference cause i didn't record it*
"
Let's go baby and dance now Freak (Bodybangers Mix Edit) (Bodybangers Mix Edit) by Bodybangers on 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Abracadabra by The Steve Miller Band on  
Best rock pop dance music Now You Dropped A Bomb On Me by The Gap Band on  
"Scream in silence. 
Dance in stillness.
      B. D. Schiers
|
|
 (ZenProverbs)"
  Best Dance Choreography on First Class song by Pooja Chaudhary beautyngracedanceacademy
"As if it is your last so everybody to dance like its your last 
-ros "
Trump as though thy democrats that thy democrats as though Trump. Either but both each must dance as though advance 
"Look me in the eyes 
when you tell me that you love me
Sing to my ears the song that makes me crazy 
Hold me closer "
Ahhhhhh! How cute! Dragon ball z and pokemon! Two mews doing the fusion dance! 
"

Tyga - Do My Dance (Official Music Video) (Explicit) ft. 2 Chainz

Tyga DoMyDance"
one day Ill be back in a dance studio... one day
This by far will always be a dance I will do 
"  this happened with my lil bro, but with Not Today: we were driving from school &amp; I was "
i want everybody to dance like its your LAAAAH
"  Tbh bruno the lesbian mom could do some freaky shit with his stand, just look at poor ol zucc "
"Michael Jackson's Moonwalk dance of 1983 that changed generations. People are still doing it till date.

Backsliding.

Bey who?"
We need 100 Boys &amp; girls for our urdu cinema film song shoot dor dance performance with mahira khan. If you or any 
Andy Black - We Dont Have To Dance (Official)  via 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Over And Over Again by Robby Valentine on  
 aww imy more sammy &lt;3 we need to go dance soon!! 
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
I just said hes bae he hit the thizzle dance!
SO I NEED EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAASGHSHH
If post Malone doesnt invite the wayv members to his tour to perform their dance then the system is rigged
"Dance partners or sparring partners?  vs  have a Dutch duel!

NLDWorldSBK 

 VIDEO | "
"Ros: The song is called As If It's Your Last so I want everybody to dance as if it's your LAAAAAASTT

The Crowd: "
SO THIS LAST SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
"SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOU LAST , SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!"
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAST
" Go upstairs, knock loudly on the door and exclaim that his/her spell worked - youve arrived. Then chuck "
" Sally: Ok well then is there any name you like

Dance: ......

Music: Or something you like 

Lyric: ???"
affonso1966 warning adults only aviso somente adultos erotic porn site +18      : Kasino - Cant Get Over - Dance Fr 
CAN SOMEONE TEACH ME HOW TO dance huhu ITS SO FRUSTATING IDK HOW TO LEARN FROM VIDEOS
"god tier: likey, tt

high tier: cheer up, like ooh ahh, what is love

mid tier: heart shaker, yes or yes, dance the "
"BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
Rose: This song is call as its your last so I wanna everybody to dance like your last 
Me: "
 Gotta be the shoes....I get my man set the dance floor on fire with those.   prettyshoes 
"Life may not be the party we hoped for, but while we're here we should dance. -Anonymous"
"we all need ros screaming this at the top of her lungs: 

THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYB "
FORTNITE Dance Moves 2019  via  gamer dance 
"J.P  2nd Place Hip Hop Solo Senior / Dance Fest Novi Sad 2014 / AQUA

 "
  Best Dance Choreography By Pooja Chaudhary On First Class song (Kalank) 
"ros : THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASFRNF

lisa : "
"Tonight is the final night of the road to royal Albert hall tour  go smash it tonight, dance your hearts o "
"   Sorry, we don't contemplate proffer beggar's like  .. go get a life yo "
'Cause love is such an old-fashioned word and love dares you to care for the people on the edge of the night and lo 
"""so i want everyone to dance LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAAST"" 

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
" Of course he can dance he has so much talent he draws, sings, acts, plays instruments it's only logical "
Phife Dawg ft Dwele &amp; Mike City - Wanna Dance (Radio Edit)
BRO MYA DANCE WHITE AS FUCK.
"Dear Diary.......
I can't get the steps right in dance practice because I'm too dummy thicc and the clap of my tidd "
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Malatoid The Underground World 077 With Malatoid by  
"  Sydney Carter came down on the side of dancing:
I danced on a Friday when the sky turne "
Dance party 4 eva
Just Pinned to amzn: One-Piece Gymnastics Leotards for Little Girls 4t 5t Quick-Dry Long Sleeve Unitard/Biketard Un 
My heart is still in pieces that one year ago we lost a legend and someone who changes dance music for ever. I stil 
"  Muddu will teach Amal how to dance and Amal will give him music lessons LMAO!

JUST IMAGINE.

YellowLights"
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"Such a fun night! 

Glamazons  drinking with friends at Cowfish Dance Club "
everybody to dance like its yOUR LAST 
"A-PRINCE - Hello MV (Dance Ver)
"
"Hurry' only one day left,we are going to enjoy the cocktail party are you coming? 
Come and enjoy the ohh! yeah en "
Ballet teacher breaking class barriers with dance in Peru - KIRO Seattle: 
"Jeweler (Dawn Zulueta) x young lawyer (Bea Alonzo) fight for the affections of a neurosurgeon (Richard Gomez), who "
 Love a good dance when they are in the minority. When they are in the majority they are a bunch of thugs
. - Let's Dance To Joy Division [17:05]
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
ariana get your ass to indio and dance with the pinks as if its yoUR LAAAaAaAAAaaaAaaaAST
 i wanna dance w blackpink wtf
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Don't Leave Me Alone &amp;40;EDX's Indian Summer Remix&amp;41;
 - David Guetta Ft. Anne-Marie
 "
  Best Dance Choreography On First Class song By Beauty N Grace Dance Academy 
Here are our Prom Spirit Week days! Remember you can participate even if youre not attending the dance to show you 
I think Meghan Markle's baby should be brought immediately to my house and she should have to do a little dance whi 
"The ballet has not aged well, especially in the wake of MeToo.

(via  "
  Creepy Joe has a lot of explaining to do - lol. Hes going to take a savage beatin 
took jazz dance lessons and ballet since the third grade -kaifact
"Dance for me  danceforme 

"
"We are developing an asymmetrical game, let the characters dance with you, before the game test
Welcome to our Dis "
"Netta - ""Bassa Sababa"" - Dance Choreography by Brian Friedman - TMillyTV "
sitting on the floor trying to tune out donald glover and his stupid ass knee dance someone save me
Let's go baby and dance now Needin U (Radio Edit) by The Face Vs. Mark Brown &amp; Adam Shaw on 
" so I found a dance that I'd like to suggest it's like a Electro Swing 2.0, it would be nice to consid "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Free To Decide by The Cranberries on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Gimme Some Lovin' by The Spencer Davis Group on  
 Tease the hell out of me I love it. I like to flirt too but Im not around to many people so its limi 
Just Pinned to amzn: Agoky Kids Girls' One-Piece Short Sleeve Ballet Dance Tutu Costumes Pink 5-6 
   And he cant even dance the Gwara Gwara its a shame 
Cant wait to dance to this song at my reception  
most traumatizing moment in my school life was being at a dance in middle school and then they played MO BAMBA and 
Is 8am really an acceptable time to start blaring shitty dance remixes
"City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts
An arbitrator ruled that City Ballet o "
"Pole Dancing Without Nudity or G-Strings. Just Express Yourself.
The curious hybrid of art, sport, exotic dance and "
"Critics Pick: Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo)
Mariana Valencias autobiographical solo reminds us we are "
Let's dance together
     Same enthusiasm when we see  sing and dance.... 
Check out Thirsty Wilson's full live music schedule! Not only are we truly the most versatile party band in South J 
"lettin u kno that,U cant let anybody get ya down,keep yr head up ha cha cha *does a dance"
"[Update Chara] Drop the full dance practice video please 

JUNGKOOK  BTS_twt

 "
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music  
 too bad you used a photo of an african american woman who not only was an icon of beauty and dance 
idk how my friends expect me to drive correctly when they play all the music i dance to
- again we are talking about the same boys who spend so much time and effort in perfecting one dance move over &amp; ov 
"3Racha
Vocal team
Dance team 
My family "
Hustlers Has Riverdale Star Lili Reinhart Showing Off Her Dance Moves 
Can't dance without lili 
"Someone: You can't dance to the Noliv's first kiss scene.

Me, an intellectual:

SkamNL "
As if its your last so everybody dancE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST 
Back at it tonight with Save The Yuppies!!! Welcome Easter and dance to the beats of   &amp; 
 Get ready for the chicken dance we all know its coming 
" is a one-stop-shop for theatre, cinema, dance and art also has a museum, bar and space to hire "
"Calling all dancers!  

 annual dance competition for individual dancers &amp; troupes aged 16-24 is n "
"coachella weekend 1 rosie:    !!!! 

coachella weekend 2 rosie: DANCE FUCKER DANCE !!! 

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
"You must read this powerful piece about thats going on in Balochistan. 

Just by showing an occasional Baloch dan "
"We're going to the show
Let's go go!
(Let's go to the show)DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY BAWDIES"
Had a great time at pyramid club tonight. The goth part of the club played Ceremony by New Order just before I left 
 They played OTR remix and my daddy went completely off! I aint seen this man dance like this in a while 
NowPlaying We Don't Have To Dance by Andy Black
me watching ten and winwins lovely dance every single night before bed 
"im loving all these tweets about ros SKSKSKSKSKSJSSJS she's so funny  
""give it up for them guys! GIVE IT UP FOR "
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"Never realized how crazy it is to see people who dont know you, dance to your music. That feeling is indescribable"
 IF ITS DANCE YOU CAN DO IT MEGAN WOOO
"miss roseanne said to dance and sing like its your last so dANCE AND SING LIKE ITS YOUR LAST, BITCH! "
"rosie's gonna come on twitter and see us clowning her

""dance like its your laa-"""
my upstairs neighbors sound like they are learning to river dance and I need this to stop immediately
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella "
 i dont mind dancing if i can dance but sadly i cant HAHAHAHHA :)
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"SoCal dance listings, April 21-28: Che Malambo and more

Shen Yun 2019 Touring show celebrates traditional Chinese "
 this is also their best dance practice video. hands DOWN!
Just realised tonight will be the first family party that Bradley wont be coming to with me  who am I gonna da 
Tonight Im gonna dance for you 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough by Michael Jackson on  
"On now! trancemindstate LeoLauretti Noar Mignacca GravityAllNew Trance Mix93fm | 
Your 1 Dance &amp; Hit Remix "
"THIS MORNING'S WAKE UP CALL IS AN EXAMPLE OF HOW R 'n' R NOT ONLY REFLECTED TEENAGE LIFE, BUT YOU COULD DANCE TO IT "
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LASTRHSHGHSKSK 
"My mother is obviously clearing out her storage or something, cause she's snapping pics.. of pics.

Here's me in st "
 IDK I SAW THE TWEET AND THEY MENTIONED DANCE SO IM JUST SAYING
"Something about the music, it got into my dance Something about the music, it got into my pants"
"Kids and Ballroom Dance: A Fun Way to Stay in Shape!  
azballroom kidsdance kidslatin dancesport kidsballroom"
Just a guy who loves to dance!
" *smokes massive cigar and reclines*
Dance for me, bitch."
I WANT YOU GUYS TO DANCE LIKE IF ITS YOUR LASDHSGSGST 
        Ooohhh fuck 
"For someone like me who can't even dance, this is exciting to watch on my special day. "
And I have made a beat 4 fun here's a link they can enjoy and dance to but I dont even care.
Summer Party Dance Mix a Spotify playlist discovered @ Playlist Curation spotifyplaylist playlist nowplaying 
YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS KINGSSSSSSSSSSSS 
Don Henley - All She Wants To Do Is Dance 1984   kbradiothp internetradio
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Everything
 - Firebeatz + Peppermint Ft. Aidan O'Brien
 "
"Rabbit, eat balanced meal. Dont just eat grass, eat more protein! Meat! Rabbit is getting thin again mama is very d "
jisoo really really hyped up and so powerful no matter how many times she had to dance and sing this song 
Latest dance Choreography on First Class song by Pooja Chaudhary 
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
I like dance songs. I want to try a ballad. I'm going to make Minho do the narration for the intro!
   Remain parties unfortunately are not entering alliances. Please let's support 
"who wants bighit to post a dance practice for dionysus?
i do"
Kasino - Cant Get Over - Dance Free Style  via 
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"Into sports in High School; football, baseball and mostly dance w/ Big John Drury  podcast "
"Drop the full dance practice video please 

JUNGKOOK  BTS_twt

 "
  Hope you have been practising the dance moves with Stephen 
Choreographer Terence Lewis to make his feature film debut with a dance movie 
"Taehyung's reaction when someone shouted ""BTS TAEKOOOOOOK"", that cute little dance "
" That would be just a wee bit too difficult for them, and I rather think that the Beijing Polis wouldn' "
Do you like to dance?  Hmmm  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Hot Right Now by DJ Fresh Feat. Rita Ora on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: What You Need by INXS on  
Wait. Is this the just dance version LOL 
Pirouettes like Jagger: inside the unlikely RollingStones ballet dance nyc 
-disrespect and obviously you dont know them at all if you think they would just half try a dance. I said it onc 
 and her wii dance gives me life
Just been sick three times so this dance comp going to be FUNNNNN
  Rose look so shy but still moving for the dance. But lisaaaa really enjoyed that 
"Chaeyoung screaming this song is called as if it your last , so everybody dance like its your last "
Great dance with a great student community! thescstory19  
"Dance like nobody's watching.... bcoz they're not.... 

 They r busy checking their phones! 

Happy Saturday! "
lisa when ros suddenly screamed dANCE as if it's your LASSJSJK 
" can't dance
INFERNO"
"no one:

ros in coachella: this song is called as if it's your last so i want everyone to dance like it's your LAA "
I wish they didnt recycle It Only Happens When I Dance With You like thats clearly his song with Nadine you cant us 
I want her to be happy. I really do. Drunk confessions on the dance floor.
 I WANTED TO DANCE WITH THEM
ateez doing these sexy dance just ...
"""Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo)"" by SIOBHAN BURKE via NYT  conjureart"
"""Pole Dancing Without Nudity or G-Strings. Just Express Yourself."" by SIOBHAN BURKE via NYT  conjureart"
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT  conjureart"
R.i.p to ros. All she wanted was everyone to dance like it was their last. Why do yall have to make her repeat it 
Les Twins  World Of Dance 2017 (Full Performance) + Download 
Cool/rainy nights with that one dance off in the distance are the best
 sexy dance
"THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT YOUR LAST,  SO YOU BETTER DANCE LIKE THIS IS YOUR LAAAAASST "
"nadie: 
jennie: 
jisoo: 
lisa: 
ros: this song is called As If It's Your Last SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAASHDGST"
SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASSSSTTT
  At the same time this ad is convincing me it might be good. That dance at the beginning.
My ray bans fell to the floor at the club and I swear I created a new dance move with the quickness I picked them up with
"Work like you don't need money, love like you've never been hurt, and dance like no one's watching. -Unknown"
"Lets Dancehall!!

dancehall choreography dance

Weekend Dancehall Pro 
Choreography- prasanna.swingers 
Music- "
" to live again, love will always be a lesson, give me your hand (basically all of mindheist's fic) de "
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"""Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo)"" by SIOBHAN BURKE via NYT  "
"City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts
An arbitrator ruled that City Ballet o "
"Pole Dancing Without Nudity or G-Strings. Just Express Yourself.
The curious hybrid of art, sport, exotic dance and "
"""Pole Dancing Without Nudity or G-Strings. Just Express Yourself."" by SIOBHAN BURKE via NYT  "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
"Critics Pick: Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo)
Mariana Valencias autobiographical solo reminds us we are "
jisoo really really hyped up and so powerful no matter how many times she had to dance and sing this song 
 AT EVERY SCHOOL DANCE I WENT TO EVERYONE WALKS AWAY WHEN ONE OF THEIR SONGS IS PLAYED BUT NOT THIS T 
"ROSE'Y i love you  
Everybody dance Blinks

 "
"When you realize that taehyung confirmed he reads armys tweets,jungkook is already rted a fanart,hoseok liked army "
Hathor was one of the most important and complex goddesses of ancient Egypt. A mother goddess who created and maint 
"P12.5mm LED Display Screen Video Dance Floor
WhatsApp&amp;Wechat: 0086-13570180326
Email: kachine "
Yoooo this chinito on the dance floor dancing to cumbias gives me LIFE 
On the bright side my relatives were exposed to  when I asked the DJ to play Boy in luv so the groomsmen co 
I cant wait gor their Boy With Luv dance practice video 
"Her whole set was filled with fan love
From learning a new instrument just for this concert, singing an Ariana song "
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
"so this song is called as if its your last, so i want everybody to dance like its your LAAAAAAST"
"THE WAY ROS SCREAMED HER LUNGS OUT WHEN SHE SAID ""DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST"" MADE MY WIG FLY TO PLUTO!!!!!!!  "
art of dance 
"Your music &amp; lyrics are so good &amp; you dance so well! You bring love, joy, hope, care &amp; sunshine into our lives. You "
fever (2002) is really a masterpiece of dance pop
ros telling every person at coachella to dance like its their last 
" Atleast lingard and Pogba can dance, this looks forced"
420 eve- Live Tech House - Elev8t RAdio - Flow Fam Desert Gathering 2019 by bass_bin  nightg 
" Spring has always been my favourite, new life everywhere, lime greens, blossom, seeds emerging and d "
"Fine Lines (Original Mix) 035 by Justin Marrone  Progressive, House, Dance, Electronic, Melo "
Just by showing an occasional Baloch dance on PTV we cannot manage national integration. 
I would dance hella fucking sensual for no reason 
This why his my fav....we both can't dance ...we only know how to fight  
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
"LR77 by LR  Techno, Minimal, House, Underground, 2019, stomping, Sample, Dance, bass, rapmus "
"i remember one time, my friends and i played guess this kpop song and my friend accidentally said dance the nigh "
   You will enjoy it! Ballet is so beautiful and it's a beautiful thing 
"Appreciate if you could drop by to say hi guys 

BABY SHARK CHALLENGE Sing and Dance PINKFONG songs "
" (Plus, of course, we've done this dance before. Describing Labours position on Brexit as ""not publi "
Can girls dance holding a weapon like boys in the uae  Its not gonna be a traditional dance since girls werent d 
Lets not be two faced  if you honestly dance or listen to Bollywood songs/see bwood movies or being an actress an 
I lost a boy in Cally's dance Entertainment industry yesterday RIP TG.
Playing Last Dance bcs missing BIGBANG soo much
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
 I dont know if you can fight like you can dance... too bad... Lukeigotyoursixordoi
 I'm down to have a white chicks style dance off with BTS
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
Daybreak Rain - Shannon Dance Cover [Silhouette Version] By Clarabelle (Red Velours) 
"Make change happen! ""The only way to make sense out of change is to plunge into it, move with it, and join the danc "
"JAYBIRD  YOU CAN'T UNDERSTAND (THE JOURNEY) by JAYBIRD  Jaybird, TheHeartbeat, Heartbeat, H "
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"Come and see LanaLailana's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: Its FriYay! Gifts make her DANCE  
 "
my girl 
SHINee-Everybody dance cover by SHAWOLES 
 Oh I feel no shame! It was a 60s themed dance and I was one of the few boys camp enough to dress up. I 
Iron Maiden - Dance of Death Lyrics 
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
" I'd like to take Iron Man aka Tony Stark to the Comic Con...
All hail before him so I'd get easy acc "
Odies done stole this niggas girl mid dance. 6fig
"My soul needs to dance. I miss it. I used to dance all the time, but then reality took over and I lost touch with m "
Dance to live..! 
He dance better than playing football 
 Ya se me ha pasado dont worry
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
ohmygod when i come back to mexico im going to whip out beychella dance moves during the town dances  
"Prokofiev: Romeo and Juliet, No 13 Dance of the Knights (Valery Gergiev,...  via "
"me : 

so this song is called as if its your last. SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST! 

 "
"NATIONAL MUSIC MELA 2019 PNCA 
CLASSICAL EVENING 20TH APRIL STARTING AT 7:00 PM 
CULTURAL FOOD AND LIVE MUSIC AND D "
The Potty Dance 
"ROSE'Y i love you  
Everybody dance Blinks

 "
NowPlaying: Show 703 by 538 Dance Department Listen Live:  dancemusic edm 
Now playing Too Shy by Kajagoogoo music best hits rock pop dance on  
For Me! You bet! Sing and Dance! Hooray!
"   3 bright women be inspired by
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salu "
Jumee JumeeMusic returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"uhHHH whats that dance move the whites have recently tried to claim,, I just witnessed it rn while he was paying and Im just "
What kinda dance is that hahaha 
"Embed code not available

Looking for a place to stay during ADE? Multiple travel options will be released next wee "
"Embed code not available

. richiehawtin and johnacquaviva were the first Canadian artists to make their mark on th "
Shout out to video tape the dance team at a woman to guess his wage was A+ television.
 So nice that she forced her bf to watch her dance intimately with the man she was cheating on him with 
"Embed code not available

Final chance to save on your ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the rate goes up at midnigh "
"Embed code not available

Only a couple more hours left to save on your ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the rate g "
"Embed code not available

Only a couple more hours left to save on your ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the rate g "
"Embed code not available

Service alert: Only a few hours left to save on your ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the "
Now Playing: Dance Sister Dance (Baila Mi Hermana) (Album Version) by  on America's Favorite Web Radi 
"Embed code not available

estellemeijer Sure, you can also contact us at info(at)"
"Embed code not available

Service alert: Only a few hours left to save on your ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the "
"Embed code not available

Service alert! Just a few days left to save on the ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the r "
"Embed code not available

Focusing on mixing and production with davidwrench at ADE Sound Lab: "
"Embed code not available

Service alert! Just a few days left to save on the ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the r "
Need a dance partner for Sunday imma be so upset if I dont dance to banda recodo their literally my favorite 
At least I got to dance with my girls. 
"Embed code not available

First time visitor or regular delegate? Here's everything you need to know about the Amst "
" happy birthday to one of the best gals ive come across, hope you have the best day and ill see you soon for a dance "
"Embed code not available

Service alert! There's one week left to save on the ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the "
"Embed code not available

Service alert! There's one week left to save on the ADE Pass or ADE Conference Pass, the "
Animist - Wanna Dance
"Cousins friend: How are you gonna dance at my party?

My cousin: Honestly, Ill probably just rapid dab in the corner. Nothing serious."
"If I can't move, I can't dance."
Today's Dance YouTube Video Loud Luxury's Body (feat. brando) 
Life isn't about waiting for the storm to pass ... it's about learning to dance in the rain! gmanvines
Wale the Dance instructor will take you on a journey of discovery into the world of dancing right after our Saturd 
Voyce - Dance With Me (Clean)
" Draw inspiration from 
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar.
Hubby going for Battle want "
"Taeyong 
-soft Hufflepuff boy
-shows all of the new students around the castle
-helps the teachers clean up after "
I honestly only looked forward to sitting in the cafe for almost an hour just to watch her and her sister dance LOL
   Happy Dance!! 
"no one:

fifth harmony during the like mariah dance break:
"
Thanks to  and  for putting dropitlow on the new dance revolution Playlist  NewMusicAlert 
Dance is a sport. That's all I'm gonna say. 
 Im watching it and strictly watching Ashley dance. I love her
 &amp; I tearing it up on the wedding dance floor this weekend 
Boss filmed him doing that caramelldansen dance while in a lobster costume.
"if ros ask you to dance as if it's your last you should DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
 "
"Roseanne is so da.n gorgeous!! If she wanted me to dance, I'll dance and break my leg, my neck and my bones   "
Join us OnAirNow with Electrosound - Just Dance Now (La Riots Remix) ElectroBass DrumAndBass 
do the dance
Its like my dance life and stan life are collabing and Im here for it 
"   3 bright women read on. 
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar.
H "
   It is very much possible that these leftist naxal media used these evidences a 
I miss watching their dance practice 
Had a great time at Prom! Thank you guys for making my Senior year a memorable experience. Was super lit! The best 
[Majestic - Dirty Androids] Shuffle Freestyle [Game - Dancerush Stardom]  Dance Konami Arcade Bemani Shuffle
"not really into fandom fights and obviously no one fight over this bc they are distinct groups, but i am sad cause "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Lovers' Ghetto by Angie Stone on  
"  No . The singularly word was authoritative , firm in his unmoving stance , his jutted arm like a "
*** and *** have almost the same amount of members but one is so better than the other. we cant even say its about 
Realtalk. how i dance vs how im supposed to : 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAGAGGAGAAGSSST
 you people will not allow MJ to RIP. The man's brilliance literally paved way for beyonce. changed the w 
 stole the moonwalk from     michaeljackson dance
"Jack Gilinsky laughed at my crackhead dance moves and I FELT THAT 
-
 AGFIN"
"Ros: DANCE MTHERFCKRS
Jennie: BTCH BVTCH 
why is this so funny 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
cybermansaturday drwho       
 Imagine getting a lap dance from her 
 Every word he spoke of both Stacey and Kevin was true. you're in denial because you feel foolish th 
 Blastoise use rain dance
"OMG Ros  ""So this song is called As If Its your last, So I want everybody to dance like its your last!!"" got me "
"Ros in Korea:

Ros in America: I want you lazy ass bitches to dance ! We gon get lit tonight !"
"i should rly go to bed now but agh wandersong is so cute so far!! ;; 
the litle bard makes the flowers and leaves c "
" Pratapji since u from Mewar sharing this art. HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar.
Hubby go "
  I am basically a high school dance chaperone
"I wanan dance yall, thankfully manana we celebrate my beat friends birthday and we WILL be dancing"
"Next, 
Today 4 U
tomorrow for me!
It's a lovely day to dance. 



It's just fun. Angel is cute!"
  start dancing before you even play it!!!  Tweet this which Afro artist u love and think will kill thi 
"if im ever a barback, i will never be that guy who stacks 17 glasses and walks through the dance floor but i will"
Evolution of Latin Dance 
None of my sisters can dance but one  
I also like the camera works on Coachella. They really focus on each member during their parts. We were able to see 
Time to drink champagne and dance on the table shirt  
"Evening tickets still available for Dance only, tickets with meal sold out "
"//

Follow 

I made him in just an hour lmao. "
Now playing Slow Hand by The Pointer Sisters music best hits rock pop dance on  
The Vampire Diaries S06E22 - Ending scene: Delena's last dance and Stero...  via 
kangaroos love australians and bats dance ballet
Ros had the crowd by the NECK. Also this dance break &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
"I can not wait for the day I get to dance again, slowly but surely"
"Tonight's load in for tomorrow's show :-)
DRK Presents: Dance for Life
All proceeds go to the American Foundation f "
 Wonder woman ended the drought that is this dry ass dance floor
"Soonyoung

- Is the dance instructor for his child's school dance cca
- Tries to talk back to the teachers during p "
White people go off to meek mill like they actually know how to dance
Chivettes are a different breed of sexy: Dance Off Edition (Video)  
"No one:
Ros: so I want everybody to daNCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!"
"Watching people your age do all the things you dreamed about: study, travel, build a career, dance, function normal "
"Just received this message from TYGA FM in Tasmania. 

""Just to let you know that Im playing Dance Of Light on TYG "
Day 1 Holland Dans Spektakel 2019 Was On !! See You All Day 2  larz nike dance @ Netherlands 
"- have a photoshop 
- make t-shirts 
- draw
- cook
- ride your bikes
- dance thogether"
" Tavleenji sharing story we do not find in our textbooks.
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumba "
" Were you in the snowball dance scene of stranger things? Lots of people are like ""On the internet I "
"You are fine like that, so lets dance together, de gozaru! I cannot wait any longer..."
"See, Michael Jackson transcends generation. Some of us knew the dance moves and some of his songs before we even re "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Who Can It Be Now? by Men At Work on  
Britains Got More Talent 2016 S10E02 Rory Michael Jackson Dance Tribute FullAudition  
The Bird and The Bee - Polite Dance Song  NowPlaying 
Britains Got More Talent 2016 S10E02 Rory Michael Jackson Dance Tribute FullAudition  
Britains Got More Talent 2016 S10E02 Rory Michael Jackson Dance Tribute FullAudition  
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAHHHHHST
Britains Got More Talent 2016 S10E02 Rory Michael Jackson Dance Tribute FullAudition  
"no one:
nobody:
literally no one:
i repeat, NOBODY:
ros: I WANT YOU GUYS TO FUCKING SING THIS AND DANCE TO THIS AS IF ITS YOUR LARGHDJKFKF"
Britains Got More Talent 2016 S10E02 Rory Michael Jackson Dance Tribute FullAudition  
 HAHAHAHAHA i thought he did the backpack kid dance well tho  and the caterpillar thing he did during their ending
Michinari is hard to assign a pokemon to when he doesnt really have any aesthetic except for flash dance??? Sparkly 
ill be posting my Boy with Luv Dance Cover later :))))
look its clear that nadine is supposed to fall squarely into the Bitter Bitch archetype but girl just wants what sh 
     Egg Hunt tickets are sold out Tickets for evening ev 
"
Listen to Lose Yourself (To Dance) by Apocrypha Scribe np on SoundCloud
"
" When they went up the beanstalk, when he helped her save Henry, first kiss, first dance, when he d "
 I went to our yr7 dance dressed as Austen Powers. There are photos somewhere. I was... very shagadelic
Ros: this song is called As if it was your last so I want everybody to dance as if iT WAS YOUR LAST 
Im headed to get a lap dance  Im over due
"   Hey Daniel, I'm very angry with Corbyn too, but this is not the mome "
"ASTRO is so underrated yall seriously need to stop sleeping on them. Their songs are good, they sing well, they da "
" DavidoInfinixEasterGiveway InfinixAndDavido 
The 32MP camera is wow!! This phone is mine by the grace "
Dance workshop 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Got The Love by Don Diablo &amp; Khrebto on  
we can just dance to this
 why would some peeps be complicating this dance move na... ejoor... asiiinn...
"While we, dance around this bedroom, like weve only got tonight. Not about to let you, go until the morning light "
" You forget how dance bar girl, 

her son 

AND all her dogs/bitches 

Have Been insulting MODIJEE

Fo "
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening "
so i want everybody to danCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAST 
"NMB48 theater in Namba, Osaka, 
doing concerts almost every day for about 2 hours which consists of song and dance and talk. NMB48fact"
Watching Kanchana3 Superb Comedy nd Horror Movie..  Kola Mass Performance  ur looks gorgeous Nd Danc 
"Can we fast forward to your wedding so we can dance on the dance floor BootScootBoogie 

"
   Surely it depends on the candidate within labour and conservatives partie 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : No Stress
 - Laurent Wolf
 "
" I was named after Linda Parker, a singer on the Barn Dance."
"Um, this is NOT how I learned this dance "
  Dance with me. You two! 
 why he dance like me man ? 
  Im 58. I saw Royal Blood a couple of years ago at Rock City and strayed onto the dance floor 
"""So this song is called As If It's Your Last, so I want everybody to dance like it's your LAsT"" -Park Chaeyoung, 20 "
 Can you do the Fortnite default dance?
I played Dance Dance Revolution tonight and I now know what self inflicted torture is.
 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CES THE LEGEND KSKSKSK ENJOY UR DAY AND POST KA PA MORE DANCE COVERS HAHAHAHHGA LABYU 
 I'm at a dance competition
Omgggg if this aint me !!  
 just answered my question on instagram. DANCE MOMS FANS ARE SHAKING I AM DYING
Time to drink champagne and dance on the table shirt  
I dance for bre all the time 
 I cant dance that good
"ros : THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASFRNF

coachella crowd: "
Your MCM cant dance
curiousaboutARMY  bts In morning after I wake up  dance boy with luv in toilet hahahah my little brother 
"This was an interesting topic of discussion at  conference last month, more so specifically it's eff "
stan a queen who dance &amp; sing at the same time &amp; still look beautiful. stan chungha  
My sister is thinking of dancing punta for her surprised dance &amp; im so excited !!!
so this song is called as if it's your laST so i wANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE!! LIKE IT'S YOUR LaaAAST!!!!! 
"Good morning!   

Were off to London today providing medical cover to an all day dance even "
"Swallowtail butterfly and  Small Cabbage White dance.
 I've been on the side, but I'm dancing near the surface all "
"my god, girls girls gilrs dance practice 2014 "
MAGIC IS IN THE AIRARE YOU READY FOR THIS VANCOUVER? See you Sunday APRIL 21ST @ UNITE VANCOUVER ~ YOGA - BRE 
"I dance
To the heartbeat
Of now

Yoga Mantra "
"RHYTHM BOUND
Chicken Jump Skips/Los Rancheros/D.D.D.
Burlesque Dance Miss CabarettaDJTakashi "
i need to live in miami because everyone knows how to dance and i just wanna dance 24/7 
"If my nose could get rid of the scar from the time I got elbowed and my nose ring got ripped 1/4"" lower during danc "
"buss a bod dance pon it. Grab on pon it, balance pon ittt  "
All I want is to fuckin dance/party with  is that too much to ask for?? 
V.A. - Warriors Dance RU Streetwise EP [Warriors Dance] 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAHGS
I still listen to your favorite song. The song i didn't get to dance with you. It still fucking hurts.
"Listening to The Nutcracker, Op. 71: The Nutcracker, Op. 71: No. 14, Variation II - Dance of the Sugar-Plum Fairy b "
"If this doesnt make you happy, I dont know what will

(may ginagaya siyang dance cover) "
my whole family hates me i literally made them STAY at the quince so i could dance for an hour and a half w/o leaving the floor HAHAHA
"Tbh, their starting momentum was kinda off, the girls were little offkey on some lines, but when this dance break s "
Dance mood on  
played dance yrself clean at a lesbian bar and I'm PUMPED for the drop y'all
i want everybody to dance like itS yoUR LAASSDDTTT 
7.45am &amp; the first request of the day was....Matty! These kids love  &amp;  as much as meeeee  
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
"BTS Dyonisus JUNGKOOK shut up and admire the dance, he will take it all off. God created Jungkook.   "
 tell her ur cooky can teach her how to dance !
  We have long way to go. When Buhari what najja to dance galala because of 30k
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Drop It Down
 - Sidney Samson Ft. Vasin
 "
 That was a really awesome performance. I can definitely see your developing your own sense of dance 
AhoraSuena NowPlaying: Bebe Rexha - The Way I Are (Dance With Somebody) (Con Lil Wayne) InacapRadio
"  What I admire in Alden is the way he easily learns a dance step or a  fight scene, yo "
" They already said its hey now na as pa she sabi dance.. 
Lmao"
  signal mpa lwakyi mubuza network njabakolela artwork mutekemu frame work we no longer dance moon walk t 
"Today will be 
ICGC Christ Temple 
  12 noon 
outoftheboxexperience 
fire 
Dance "
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
"ros: SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS THEIR LAST!!!
lisa: "
Why niggas let Chris brown for beating Rihanna somebody should whooped him but u know he dance so good he woulda do 
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAARGGGHHHSTS
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
Now playing Strut Your Funky Stuff by Frantique music best hits rock pop dance on  
[FACT]Part of the Dance Trio of SNSD w/ Hyoyeon &amp; Yuri.
Let's go baby and dance now G.U.Y. by Lady Gaga on  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide Spirit  
So yall I TRIED to do the baby mama dance today and lets just say I cant do too much on my feet because of how swollen they are so NEXT 
"There are so many things that I love about San Francisco. The slow ratcheting up of anxiety that I, or the folks I "
so everybody to dance like its your laST 
"Once, at a mall, I saw a ~8 year old boy default dance into a Victorias Secret. So that was cool, I guess"
"""Btob? Their vocals are so good,  they can sing live very well""

Btob's dancing skills also deserve recognition, re "
Beats  in a dance off. 
so this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody to DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
 I used to have that shit. If i got that shit now a demon is for sure going to default dance on me at 2 in the morning
  watch Billy Elliott again for insight into class and gender issues around dance
Kassav' - Love And Ka Dance [Heavenly Sweetness] 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
if rose says she wants everyone to dance as if it's your last then you DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST 
"Couple kissing at a dance, Harlem, 1950s. Photo by Jay Maisel. See more:  "
if u dance like this . lets go on a date 
When life gets you down dance like Carlton while listening to death metal.
 Not after  rallying cry! They hunt down officers who dare to dance with protesters whils 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock You're My Best Friend by Queen on  
" Love my dance? How is it? I'm improving a lot right? ahaha

Watch your concert? I would like to if you invite me as your friend "
"If Ms. ROSEANNE TOLD YOU TO DANCE AS IF ITS UR LAST THEN DANCE AS IF ITS UR LAST!!  
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
ROS "
 Aw it looks like it's going to flash dance 
Lets dance together....
The Electric Slide (1976) is a popular dance by Ric Silver.
"1,2,3 large sister, sing all cloud. Just strut and dance ""Hey, now, now!"""
"ros in korea: omg blinks sing with us &lt;3

roseanne in america: bITCH I SAID SING AND DANCE WITH US LIKE ITS YOUR LAST"
Playing 10:30am-12:00pm. If you wanna dance i got you. 
Me practicing my dance moves with my quinceneria dress 
"Looking forward to running a dance hen party this morning 

FUNkSTREET themed dance parties can be tailored to a "
Niggas be doing whole dance routines to impress bitches 
"ros: I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST 

her throat:  "
the song is called as if its your last so i want everyone to dance as if its your LAAAAAST!
" You got them moves!! Love it!! I can see a sense something like this, where all the force ghosts join i "
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening "
          
"Im obsessed w my friends  idk how I got so blessed w the most down to earth, loving, kind, beautiful, humble, cre "
"Dance Jam for Kids!

Watch these kids move to the rhythm and groove to the beat.
Let them express themselves throug "
"  Same in every field, from art, writing, dance, music, to sport and programming languages, food a "
"dionysus really is THAT bitch,she's given us:

centre namjoon (for DANCE)
mind blowing high notes from seokjin
rapp "
Chris Breezy with the dance moves
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Your Love by Culture Beat on  
Crack that soulja boy in OBs got me feeling like its a 4-H dance 
so i want everybody to dance liKE ITS YOUR LAAAH 
she said dance before you die bitches 
"My Brother insisted on a Father/Son dance. Yay for breaking down genderroles 
Honestly so happy for him and his "
SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
 ..... Im not gonna pretend I didnt dance on cabanas backbar to Roscoe Dash 
If Ros told you to dance tHEN YOU BETTER DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST MOTHERFUCKING DAY ON EARTH 
Is that meant to be the dance to Thriller? 
everybody dance like it's your LAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAASSSSTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT 
Seems like more  media  coverage  on  trip than from the our own press .   TDS  
Party with coworkers tonight I request one song Boy With Luv but they process to play whole album. When Home starts 
If I ever have a daughter I will be enrolling her in dance classes... i cant be having my little girl at the schoo 
everyone posting dance covers of boy with luv looks like they're having so much fun it's so cute :(((
"I believe in the ministry of Pastor Vincent Bohanan and Kevin Terry!!! Before they sing a note or do a dance, I kno "
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST  
This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Moves via  
"I just want everyone to know Im better at hip hop now than I was in high school, if youve ever seen me dance. I m "
"By popular demand, Im back in the Grove for another mash-up of the biggest tracks out there, old &amp; new! 
Music fro "
"heard that?? ros said you gotta dance to as if its your last until you drop dead
 "
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
"The Fame: Just Dance
The Fame Monster: Dance In The Dark
Born This Way: The Edge of Glory 
ARTPOP: Do What U Want "
"OWN IT BABY!!

ARE YOU READY FOR THIS VANCOUVER? See you Sunday APRIL 21ST @ UNITE VANCOUVER ~ YOGA - BREA "
NP  feat.  - Dance Tonight WEEKENDHITSMOMEAFM
made my night last night.  boogying on opium dance floor and who do i lock eyes with? KATIE FUCKING MEYNELL 
"  a tree can never be greater than the seed! women always live in the present, without M "
imagine yeosang leading the dance in a dance cover for a good period of time 
 I just dance and deink banana milk all day
"every day brings a chance for you to create a coat, dance around your hammers, and wink"
"They ain't got a chance, they ain't got a chance. I need a gun cos all I do is dance"
so this song is called as if it's your last so i want everybody to dance like it's your LAAAAAAST
"""this song's called as if it's your last so I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAST!"" 

ros "
"a hardworking legend once said ""this song is called as if its your last so I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAST"""
Who was your first crush?  Omg. I had the biggest crush on this boy in preschool. We had to dance to Step in the 
"""SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASSSSSSTTTTt!"" "
choreographed an entire dance routine for when I take off my make up 
i want everybody to dance liKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAAAST 
so i want evrybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
"Massu,thank you for updating your

I read it with trying have an in-depth
understanding as the same your song an "
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAST
"  As if its your last, so I want everybody to dance like its your last "
" You come from an era when The Humpty Dance was the 1 song on the Radio &amp; nobody dared to check
 Shoc "
"Experience high energy, enthusiasm and lots of entertainment this Saturday as Atharva The Band is performing live a "
"YA YEET! Come support the stream at 7pm so I can dance your your vision holes 
TwitchANZ ClubKd "
"""Checknout my dance moves."""
IF ROS POPS A VEIN AND SAYS THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST AND DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LT WE DANCE AS IF I 
Promostart at Dance Charts :-) G-Lati 
PLEASE view just click    writers author stories child mum dad parent magazines 
imagine kang yeosang doing a dance cover of boss by nct.. 
I'm not saying that Ubisoft took too much influence from Witcher 3 but I miss when seeing a tree with bodies on it 
 Bring it back en masse. There is no way something so genuine can be resisted. There is beauty in this dance.
 Bro that is the funniest shiet Ive ever read. So the character was practically gonna kill himself a 
"Sometimes life is more than just waiting for the storm to past, sometimes you have to put your shoes on and dance in the rain!"
I have mastered the arts of Dance and Birdwatching
"Got me something true now
I'm not looking anymore
The times of fakin' love are through now
Sharing real connections "
"Help to clear Hoseok's searches 

Hoseok  is Beautiful 
Hoseok is Cute
Hoseok is Handsome
Hoseok is Pretty
Hoseok i "
"I sometimes miss going to dance at halftime with my sister, but I really ain't about that crowd life no more
I like "
 Micheal came up with a whole concept of dance that artists today still use. I admit the one area B 
so i want you to dance like its your lAaAaSsSsStTt
"omg i misheard it, should be 'to dance' or sumn fjjfjc"
  Lmfaoooooooooo imagine reducing a better stage performance to dance moves Lmfaoooooooooo. You 
so this song is as if its your last so i want everyone to dance as if its your LAAAAH
"""So this song is called As if it's your last, so I want everybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!"" 

- Ros Coachella 2019"
"Dance is a language.

blackandwhite
choreographer 
DanceLife
DancersInSA
GigiGangShow 
Soweto
plantcity "
"So in conclusion, Blackpink rules the world, Jennies vocals snapped, Jisoo invented English, Lisa invented stage p "
"thing, she means well...in her own way? I mean the program itself is amazing, I'm actually one of the teachers"" ""ar "
"dance man, have some fun... "
bts still havent uploaded last years halloween dance practice i am very mad  ArmysAreBrokenhearted 
 and young  showing off dance moves 
NowPlaying: Show 703 by 538 Dance Department at  edm dancemusic 
"No one:

Ros: DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LASTAFSGDHFK

BLACKPINKXCOACHELLA_D2"
"*roxy wins by submission...

Valentina: ""that's still mah sister!!"" *proceeds to dance like a bellend*

Roxy winnin "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino I'll Be Over You by Toto on  
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Mama Used To Say by Junior on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Gangnam Style by PSY on  
Our strict dance teacher Chaeyeon's teaching her student Sakura the hand movement of Gokigen Sayonara  and when 
YOU BITCHES BETTER DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST DANCE HOES  
so i want everybody to dance like its your laaaaAAAAAAST
" Its the political limbo dance! 
Ive got to find a sucker to take my bet Hillarys gonna run.
Its her Du "
Happy Saturday!  I wanted our children to experience something different and so we invented a magical world of da 
"The best time on bowling kinda nerves of my friend and I not dance but that was awesome night
 "
 Tolerance &amp; promoting or participating is something is not the same. Not getting upset about a gay w 
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAASSSSSTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!! 
CAN I HAVE THIS DANCE AAAAAAAAAAAAHH 
This is  how  blinks wanted camera man  to shoot dance break of last year  in award shows 
"   When this guy starts to dance, the whole Worlds stops Genius"
 BTS's dance covers
" cotton candy, love simply, Ruby red, ICFTST, Strawberry L, Before Dawn After Dusk, A Dance of Poppie "
He visited LA summer of 2012 to train with Movement Lifestyle (a famous dance academy)
 A brand footballer  who could of been better than he was  I say was because right now the fame h 
"FeelgoodFriday night CLASS vibes with amaliablaze  
.
urbandancecommunity class training grooves accents "
      Brian deserves respect from n 
"ROS : SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOU LAST , SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASTTTT! "
so i want everyone to dance like its yoUR LA
Its best you dance your way into situations; good or bad. 
" Cinco de Mayo: food, drinks, music, dance = fun"
"Adult videochat DianaFriendly: dance, smile, young, private, tits, boobs, heels, stockings, panties, legs, feet, do "
Me &amp; karma can dance turn the music up
"  the main dancer &amp; lead vocalist of 

Specialties:Street dancing (krumpi "
can my wifi get it together.... if i miss man on the dance floor i will be MAD
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : How You Love Me
 - Hardwell Ft. Conor Maynard, Snoop Dogg
 "
if ros told you to dance like it's your last then you BETTER DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR MOTHERFUCKING LAST
Missing my bby Alex. He should be on the dance floor w me rn
SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAASTTIFJIFO BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
" ah right, i just remember that you doin a promotion, i love your song- and also the dance
oh yes, dont fo "
 demons dance together  
"What r the things u like to do?  Dance
Drowning 
And i love to help people..thats make me happy a lot..
And sleep "
Drake - One Dance (feat. Wizkid &amp; Kyla)
so i want everybody to dance like its your laaAAAAAAAAST
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Sexy People (The Fiat Song) by Arianna Feat. Pitbull on  
Status: Blasting Depeche Mode dance party. Get on this level.
my dad keeps replaying my sisters dance lol he lowkey mad he didnt go
"I CANT STOP LAUGHING KSHDJSK
I want everyone to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAASSTT iconic
 "
"LAST DANCE and UNTITLED, 2014 have surpassed 90m views! "
"Things I didnt expect to see tonight: a man violently tap dancing to a swing cover of the Mario main theme, then dr "
"""SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST THEN YOU LAZY ASSES ARE GOING TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR FCKING LAST, DID "
i just want a slow dance with youuuu
"look, just because im a gym leader doesnt mean i can fortnite dance"
He's a natural dancer. Someone who is focused solely on memorizing and doing the steps would usually look too serio 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock I Got My Mind Made Up by Instant Funk on  
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Centerfold by J. Geils Band on  
dance cover tau ng boy with luv??  anyone?
"im really excited by this hot take that millennials are the first generation to stand/dance at a concert 

anyway, "
Time to drink champagne and dance on the table tshirt 
this is what computer scientists do for fun. watch hungarian folk dance interpretations of quicksort. 
This sOng is called as if its your last so dance as if its your last POTANGENAAA ROSIE AAaaAaAAAAA
please I want to see him so bad Im going to cry I need to see him in person I need to scream out I love him I need 
"""THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST, SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST""

ros omg i'm"
"""so i want eVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASTJXKXSKDKDJXJ!!!!!"" BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
"WHEN ROS SAYS DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST, YOU DANCE LIKE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST "
Best rock pop dance music Now While You See A Chance by Steve Winwood on  
Let's go baby and dance now How Deep Is Your Love by Calvin Harris on  
Japanese scientists can program the moves of futuristic robots by watching Mahesh Babu dance steps Maharshi
"It's so hard to choose just one scene because the whole MV is amazing, so i chose this part because I love the outf "
I want a loop of jennie's solo dance break
Does the hamster dance count 
 I had dance practice for my show at 8 and now I'm drinking tea curiousaboutARMY
" Jung Hoseok oppa,  Your voice is very very very good and so sexy, It is so sweet when you sing and it's so "
No ar: Stromae Vs. Dance Allstars - Alors On Danse
"the audience:
ros: DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST
the audience: "
"Penguins apparently enjoying the Get Your Ears On Celebration Dance Party. disneyland @ Disneyland, Los Angeles, "
"The turntable assassin  makes his grand return tonight, at SaturNights! Get your dancing shoes and let's link "
secondborn: I want everyone to dance like its your last
"I want to slap with your parents, so you'll go to the dance with me"
"no one:
ros: i want everYBODY TO DANCE, LiKe iTs yOuR lAaAaAassT!"
  I hear ya. I always get really mad at the Dance how they wanna dance line because apart f 
but also it goes beyond that!! if youre willingly watching an artists set then show interest!! have fun!! move ar 
Thank you  For having me minister in dance! May God continue to bless you beyond your dreams! And ama 
 she said YALL GON DANCE TODAY 
i cant sing or dance
i would love to dance to click click.......BUT DO I HAVE THE TIME
Amazing to see  perform his composition Raagas Dance based on Raag Dadbari live in a concert.  
"Hairflips, dance moves, strong wind. But their hair's still on point. Justice!!!!! BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
"I hope there are days when your coffee tastes like magic, your playlist makes you dance, strangers make you smile, "
"Just favorited ""FRAN VERGARA @ Dance &amp; Relatives 001"" by Fran Vergara on Mixcloud "
"And I'm home before midnight. 

My huge night shirt and my 3 pillows... my face washed and cleaned. Fun night out w "
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST DJZDN
"    Like, the dance?"
Ive begun an experiment called how many songs can I dance to with the same three fortnite dances and the results may surprise you.
What do yall know about the thizz dance  
"I like clubs with fog machines, so the females cant see my terrible dance moves"
 time to dance demo
" Ah, I see, yes. I had to do that dance for my family too, long ago. So I moved far, far away from them "
Critics Pick: Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (aSolo) 
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
"nowplaying Dance, Dance, Dance by The Casualeers"
"What main vocalist can dance and hype a crows like that???? Only ros
SOLI ALBUM NOWWW"
Ooo! 4/20 started early
Now he asked the bride for a dance. He still got that dragon. 
"coachella crowd :

rosie : y'all better mf DANCE BITCHES"
And now....    We dance.
Today is the day of the Britannia Coconut Dance. It is said that the dance originates from Moorish pirates that fir 
 we're getting that dance cover ollie 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAST 
 HELLO BTS.  I guess they know Chile.  well this is your typical dance  
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST
  Ill just turn the lights off shining on the drums and mute them. Then you do whatever 
Halloween Michael Jackson Skeleton Men T-shirt Funny Humour shirt Moonwa  
 dear goddess  Madonna I am creating lots of spiritual Madonna art this EasterWeekend 
"Immerse yourself in the rich, ancient traditions of Japan on our new voyage, An Immersion in Japanese Culture, wh "
Is it me but do u think most of the dance music in the dance charts should get a free razor blade with every track 
"""Directly an enemy was slain, his head  and sometimes his body, if the people were strongly cannibalistic  was ta "
"No one:

ros:  DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST FUCKING DAY ON EARTH I THOUGHT THIS SONG WAS BIG IN AMERICA WTF ARE YOU DOING"
"Yoongi, I was distracted to his hair in the dance practice of I need u "
"Dance with the waves, move with the sea. Let the rythym of the water set your soul free  "
 Or relearning to dance in the rain. 
What was different from the previous dance?
Your grandmothers new pool boy was forced to tap dance for 3 hours all because you're always on that damn phone!
If you love dance then book to see this phenomenal group. 
When Natives start singing round dance songs in the bar its time to go.
"Fuck what they say, just dance "
after 10 years I finally saw electro world live and you bet I did that dance
 THE SWALLA DANCE IN REAL LIFE.. urillusionistnation stays winning 
 Dance floor
dance:  as if it was your last
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!
"""so i want everybody to dance liKE iTS YOUR LAAST""  "
"I was shook when Rosie introduced AIIYL and literally shouted ""SO I WANT YOU GUYS TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST"" at t "
"""DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAAAAST!!!!! "" ROS ISS HYPEEEEE

 
Coachella2019
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
1. Dance with me Tonight by Olly Murs 
i want to learn how to dance
I did sexy dance while entering the door hooray? Hahahhaa
when you get into your elevator and its playing  do you love me and all you can do is dance like 
GFHGHGHGHCHXHC WHO KNOWS HOW TO DANCE MERENGUEEEEEE 
"NowPlaying Kendrick Lamar - HUMBLE. 
1RSIDANCE 
 
"
Just did Duolingo on the dance floor
"i wanna see this dance with ot6 
  _   "
"  Good grief. Was this whole selfish disruption of city life by a bunch of hypocritical, over "
"Chaeyoung shouting at the top of her lungs saying ""... so I want everyone to dance as if it's your last!""
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
what if the only way to dance to it is to awkwardly sway alone in the dick.
" Ahhhhh!!! YESSS 
Power team!! (and dance squad)"
"Prelude to a Dance
by Kay Edwards

Helen Kiser becomes an overnight hero when she jumps into "
" My daughter had a dream, it's about yo be realised. She just kept going through 4 pregnancies, 2 lost, 2 "
  doing a little dance to cheer him up! 
 Dance and be better
 king of dance jimin  your so cute and great dancer and singer at the same time keep going you are like mi 
i always forget that ive never seen jungkook dance and Wembley will be my first ime on MYGOD
" 
why can't I hold you
i n   t h e   s t r e e t?
why can't I k iss you
o n t "
| KILL THIS LOVE | blackpinkofficial ... tiffanyraebeast parakarat  ..class dance performance 
 all reality is distorted by our own mind. The best we can hope for is surveying many friends who dance outside Platos cave.
I miss seeing him dance and not look me in the eyes
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Mad Love
 - Ferreck Dawn
 "
"born and live to dance !! 
I was born to dance... GigiChiBi"
I'mma Make Ya Wanna Dance To This...
Dance with me in naivety and follow endlessly the sound of reverie. 
" on  interview Beira Mozambique  Easter Egg hunt she has organised, brilliant,  including tou "
so i want everybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LASSTTTT  
Bc...most of the crowd were blinks who bought the tickets ? Not actually...locals. Um..watch a local's Coachella st 
I got the horses in the back  DOD OldTownRoad lilnasx dance  
"ASTRO at Korea Festival in Nagoya 190420
Fun game of Hyungs
Taekwondo
Idol
Pass (Rickshaw)
Michael Jackson
TT danc "
Why can't I go dance? I'm feeling happy.
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Don't You Worry 'Bout A Thing by Incognito on  
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU ALL TO DANCE AND SING LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
Day 893: 'How can we know the dancer from the dance?' - W B Yeats SomethingGood
 Then play music in your room and dance
Thank you  hediedforme heconqueredthegrave grateful @ Karen Gronsky School of Dance 
so i want everybody to dance like its your laAAAaasTTT
Relay Dance Violeta 
  I miss watching this every Halloween on tv as a kid. Use to do this dance all the time
its her! its miku! with her funny dance! 
so I want everybody to dance like its yoURR LASTTTT BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
me and Kara just taught ourselves how to line dance. Catch us at cowboys boyyyy 
 she wants everyoene to dance like its their  LAST
"French Montana - Slide ft. Blueface, Lil Tjay  via 
slide Dance Winning "
Identity Keone &amp; Mari / Beyond Babel Cast | Vibe Dance Competition  via   um.... find these people 
  Throw the right colors on the right drums and Ill be your hero
"Some negud dance, some negus really shoot "
  looks like  rallying cry has been heard by the frontline troops. 
Father son dance off  Maverick 
Dance with the devil: the colourful Mexican art form that summons demons   via 
"Necesito el loop de Ros gritando ""EVERYONE I WANT YOU TO DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST"", por favor, lo necesito para seguir existiendo"
EVERYONE I WANT YOU TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAAAASSSSTTTTTT!!!! Lmao 
 It sounds legit but the actual pronounciation is samrah or the samrah dance. I love it but I fail at it 
"Shall we dance, my girl?"
FOR SALE Gremlin Demon Thing | Death's Dance by AustinMagickSupplies  
"SO I WANT EVERBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST

OKAY ROS WE DANCIN U DONT HAVE TO GET MAD "
I SAID SCREAM BITCH I SAID DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST BITCH 
      '         LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
Michelle dance moves really blowing me .... but I get it I guess 
       I think we shou 
dance like it's your laAAAAAAst
"I love tradisional dance so much!!! Dulu jd student dance paling suka tradisional dance class, tang class contempor "
"""I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST"" ROS IS MAD MOMMY I'M SCARED  BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
HOW IS ZOIE SINGLE. SHES BEAUTIFUL. CAN DANCE. CAN SOMEHWHAT SING. AND SHE CAN DEFINITELY TAKE PICTURES OF YOU AND UR ICECREAM 
 Yieeee thank you te rhai miss street dance days with u as my van seatmate 
LOOKAT taeyang . look at Him now . just admire his little dance moves ... 
Watching classic MTV music videos RN... this used to be IT. Watching music videos and tryna learn all the dance moves MTV 
Let's go baby and dance now Oui by Jeremih on  
"The camps, organised by BOSCO, involve life skills,  advocacy actions, self-awareness, waste management, yoga, hea "
     Guy waiting for 20 goal a season to do his all fav 
" So I want everybody to dance, like it's your laAkhs~ !!*"
"How do relieve your stress or frustration?  I have four options 
1. Dance or practice badminton until I passed out "
   The dance version is wonderful too  
 + i love to sing + dance uhmm I'm trying tho
How are those people still alive after watching her dance to those songs IN FREAKING PERSON.
   Okay i gotta go but make sure that u send ur sisters to qatar. If u dont mind 
"ros: ""this song is called As If It's Your Last SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAAAAAAASHDGST""
lisa: "
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAAST 
1yearofNoTearsLeftToCry words cannot explain how important is this song to me and this whole period and it's alrea 
"  DAY 295 -

So, May 2020, Scotland, my wedding, Die a Happy Man, first dance song... Weddin "
This new dance to Old Town Road by  is lit asf 
"it was a slow dance
minds and bodies intertwined
hands and hearts
joined in the sublime"
"ros: so i want everybody to dance, as if its your laa 
BLACKPINKxCOACHELLA_D2 "
I WISH I COULD BREATHE ROS SAID DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR FUCKING LAST YOU PIECES OF SHIT
Happiest Birthday Bbg You are  finally 18. You are just doing great in your pathway and continue it. Believe that 
so i want everybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAST BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"If I had music, is dance off some of this coffee."
"You never dance to the Beatles, anyway. And it's Stairway To Heaven that was supposed to have never been because no "
" with star lord in ashes
tony must take his place to dance off thanos"
"The Ramones 

Do you want dance?

"
" rhyme. Occasionally, each will try to dance to not be able to hang, but will try not anxiously order. "
"I am STILL so full of joy, after the  LIVE show, earlier tonight! I just can't sleep!  It was truly an "
rosie: i want everyone to dance as if its your LaAa4AaST!
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
   In riots hindi speaking speacily Bihari N UP fights n gets beaten while th 
" So I want everybody to dance, as if it your laAkhs~ !!"
"""so i want everybody to dance like IT IS YOUR LAST!!"" DAMN SHE MAD GURL OKAY"
I gotta learn that damn dance
I love it when you dance 
"The shine is taken off festive seasons for those facing hardship.

While we dance and sing; visit and are visited, "
"Ladki aankh marey

 watch baba dance and sing at the filmfare awards tonight at 9pm on colors tv.

ranveersingh "
she said DANCE  
"I dont want to be dramatic but if I could dance like her you couldnt tell me shit, fr I would be UNTOUCHABLE. "
 Classic dance nagin
Best rock pop dance music Now Close To Me by The Cure on  
        
"I can make the stars dance
 Selena Gomez"
Reading wotakoi has me laughing because Hana and Narumi doing the is she a fujoshi dance reminds me of me irl rn 
 Mahesh dance is my drug ra
[park chaeyoung's voice]: i want everybody to dance like its your last
"""SO THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST"" DAMN ROSEANNE HOPE YOU "
"Please support Kim Sungyeon!! Not only is he good at being a vocal, he can also dance and has a poppin visual. Plea "
"  but there were no guys in the hall, plus I didnt even dance "
so everybody to dance like its your LAAAA-
i want everybody to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAAA-
"  In SA, we dumbed Venda dance called Domba and pedi dance called dinaka and called the "
THE CROWD BETTER FUCKING DANCE OUR GIRL BUSTED HER LUNGS FOR THIS 
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAS- 
" So Chicane Ft Bryan Adams - Dont Give Up would be out of the question for you  

Absolute "
 I think riverdale is waaayyyy worse  ole girl doing the serpent dance at the bar? UNMATCHED
Dance with my father is one of the greatest tearjerker songs of all time. Dont @ me 
bet ya'll HOT is going to have a break dance in the choreography
i feel like doing a  mf touchdown dance
Going to 9th grade next year. Still doesn't have a dance date. Oh well. NaomiBot
 I WAAAANTT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAAAAASSSSSSSSSTTTTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 solo is cute i love that dance... UGHHHH HE BETTER NOT FUCK THIS UP FOR US!!!
    [basic dance] tin tin tin tin tiiiiiiiiiiin 
I honestly dont get why talk abt izzat when some pak actresses dance in short dresses in their own Pakistani movie 
I love fq and mehwish as Ive seen many of their dramas but it hurts when pak actors talk abt Bollywood like this w 
  in your recent ary zindagi show that its better to earn in movies being made in Paki 
so i got booked on monday for a new project n my role in it is to be a dancer n i'm so excited cause i've loved to 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Creep by Radiohead on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Losing It
 - Fisher
 "
"BTS grows so big &amp; have millions of fans worldwide because they write good music &amp; lyrics that attract people, they "
I cant wait until I can make dance my priority 
"You transform an undeniable urge to dance that shriek across 1d4+1 ghouls. If the animal succeeds, an unnatural hunger dissipates slowly."
"Friends, who can live
I want to see my baby danceThis move is so sexy
Saint_sup 
SweetSaintByBeautyBuffet "
 Makes me think of a ferret doing its weasel war dance. Which kinda makes sense seeing as they are both 
so i want everybody to dance like its your last 
Gold Grills &amp; You Dance Like Michael
 king of dance jimin your the michael jackson in this generation    
" I just dance, and dance, and dance "
The part when rosie ask the crowd to dance like as if its their last. Just wow! This girl killed it.. 
"Now Playing - Ryan Leslie - When We Dance  

Listen in at "
this song is called as if its your last sO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAAASSSTTT!!!!!!!!!!
"I love watching lay dance
It's so sharp! "
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS THEIR LAST 
" I was just wondering what samrak meant, recalling the dances at arab family weddings. Its actually Sham "
"I want everybody to dance like its your LAAAAAAST  BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2

"
 Okay lisa we see you. Great partner to dance khalid
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
 I came from dance class just now 
" They were actually screaming their lungs out but you dont hear well on camera, especially during solo and any dance break"
80s Funk Dance Music Cameo Candy 
"""So, this song is called 'As If It's Your Last"", and I want you to dance like it's your last!""

-Roseanne Park, Coa "
wanna make a mushy tweet but ros's SO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAASTSJHDDB is in my head
 its 2am I want it foxy Cleopatra beyonce psychic hotline and queen of the dance hall
"this song is called as if its your last so I want everyone to dANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST
- ros 2019"
she dances like a tether but the split takes me out every time 
 One of my fave tunes! You just cant not sing along or dance to it when it comes on! Maybe a reques 
I finally know how to dance 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Bette Davis Eyes by Kim Carnes on  
BLACKPINK - 'Kill This Love' DANCE PRACTICE VIDEO (MOVING VER.)  via 
Thank you KO_Dance for the 1875 times kiss my ass  mfctip 
 My mom's mom and stepdad could dance and it was adorable. I wish I'd spent more time with my grandpa learning how.
"Often, sky-vermin use broken glass, to parody the stench of interpretive dance at Palais de Tokyo "
 Lisa should teach you to catch the star dance
"SONG OF THE DAY

It's Saturday Night and time to join Cameo on the dance floor, so get
out your cellophane dress an "
this song is called as if its your last.... SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
 SHE SAID EVERYBODY BETTER DANCE
ISTG IF THEY DIDN'T DANCE LIKE IT WAS THEIR LAST........
Dance Gavin dance tonight in Chicago 
I WANT EVERBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST!!!
" ""You dont have to go to the dance if you dont want to"" so catchy"
" not acknowledged as a dancer? I'm laughing they really tried it
they're biased and so is SK. literally "
rosie when she finds out you didnt dance like it was your last 
        
I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAST 
When You See That Hot Chick On The Dance Floor! 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Somebody To Love by Rusko on  
"Take you home    We could dance all night and sleep all day
Kiss and love and just walk away
Took "
"Dance with fireflies ""contest entry"" "
the only dance break that matters 
So this big white chick jumps in the middle of the dance floor and starts twerking in front of this dude. Can you b 
"  Popcorn, cocktailsn and happy-dance!"
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LST
To the emo dude in middle school that paid $7 to go to the school dance just to sit in the fetal position in the gy 
" Dance: *eyes turn red*

Lyric: Nightmare Circus why dont you just name your daughter now

Music: Yeah

Sally: It does make since"
Olamide has drop another new hit song and a new dance step. Click on the link to watch. 
I love women who do art and dance who arent scared to push limits and try new things. Super gifted very special 
i hadnt looked at their profile in a while and i knew taehyung had been added into the dance line but seeing lead 
  I hope u dance to uo best
If you didnt dance when ros said you had to dance youre a b!tch
  Gugs not you too!! As long as you promise to dance wherever you are in the world when Nakhane Toure (sp) comes on!!
I'm amazed at Lisa's stamina. She sustained her energy till the end and she wasn't even huffing and puffing. Before 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LA$$((\STT TT !!!
"SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST - PARK CHAEYOUNG 2019 SCREAMING

DIDN'T EXPECT THAT"
yall are completely wrong if you think that i wont make my brother learn this dance and perform it with me at the 
DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LASFSDHT
 he mustve been like FINALLY A DANCE I CAN DO 
She sounds like she'll fite the crowd if they don't dance.
so this song is called as if its your last so i want everyone to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LASTTT
so i want EVERYBODY to dance like its YOUR LAST. 
Ros: AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASTTTTTTT 
Who remembers jabawockees? Those guys ruled dance for like a decade
This is the power of Astrology and Syncretism! I have no manager or agent and the mainstream world supports m 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Kissing In The Back Row Of The Movies by The Drifters on  
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LaAAST! 
as if its your last so everybody dance like ITS YOUR LAST
"Her habit is touching her hair.
She is close friends with all the members ofTWICE,Jeon SomiandFromis_9s Ji "
""" i want everybody to dance like its your last "" yass performer rosie"
The hottest and coolest show this side of the sahara is about to hit your screens on  from 10am. Join 
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS THEIR LAST 
" To what depths will the Limbo pole be placed.  ""Down even more"", surely they jest. Any lower they'll have "
if ros tells you that she wants you to dance like if its your last like that then you better dance like it really is your last
"A Dance Combination: Wing, Forced Arch, Heel Drop, Straddle Leap"
" Just seen your boys goal on sky sports news, great finish,not sure about the wee dance tho  maybe "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Is That For Me
 - Alesso + Anitta
 "
so you play Poison at a bar and just expect me to not do the dance from scrubs????
'Bruce Cullen - Stellar Stream' as Played by   Now Available on ALL Portals: 
"""Brother and sister, together as friends, ready to face whatever life sends. Joy and laughter or tears and strife, "
"I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST 
                     - Ros, 2019 

A comedian
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
My New Dance music track- Coming Soon
"so i wANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LASCHSK

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2

"
Follow  once gets to 100 followers he said he will give his 100th followers a lap dance
Rod &amp; Ebba  via  - NEW SINGLE 'Summer Paradise' (31 July 18)(Soundstreamers Remix)Dance
Will bitcoin make her dance?
I put selena on at work at a random guy asked to dance with me  made my night.
"if ros wants you to DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST you DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST. 
"
"To what depths will the Limbo pole be placed.  ""Down even more"", surely they jest. Any lower they'll have to dance "
Siev really said me n wizz dance like Tina out of Bob's burgers n honestly I can't agree more
"Dopeness and Respect 
teyanataylor soultrain dance tbt  "
"Appreciation tweet also for Crazy dancers! HOT!

Y'all aren't just fillers, y'all aren't there just to dance. Y'all "
I want people to watch me dance... I want to make them smile. But I can't help worrying what'll happen if I flop...
"      Just look at the two of you, "
"professionally. In dance battle, he told hyunsuk that he was alredy a pro, had great moves and had been in the comp "
"""this song is called as if it's your last so i want everybody to dance like it's your last!!!"" ayan ino-orient na kayo mga siz"
"""this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody dance like it's your LAAAAAAAST!!!"" 

NO ONE IS DOING "
 The day I learn to dance like that haundione pa sosho midiya 
"  Supporting to   in Punjabi Style Dance.
Chuck de Fatte


DCvKXIP "
I CANT BREATHEEEE SHE SAID DANCE OR IM DYING 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Shout It Out Loud (Chris Sammarco Club Mix) by Robin S &amp; DJ Escape on 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Whatever You Do! Dont! by Shania Twain on  
"Just Dance 
Dance In The Dark
Born This Way
ARTPOP
Bang Bang
Million Reasons
Shallow "
 Even the head wooshing dance part in Boombayah which was caught on cam --- strong as steel
"We will be celebrating the birthdays of these two beautiful Jackson women Sat, April 20 at YSBD...! @ You Should Be "
"I never really knew that she could dance like this
She makes a man want to speak Spanish
Como se llama, bonita, mi "
ros said YALL BETTER FUCKING DANCE
"Under Modi, now we can witness GOGOI dance. Ultimately he will come clean&amp; that poor woman is ruined like Hari Pras "
SHE CHOREOGRAPHED THE DANCE??!! HER?? THE QUEEN HERSELF CHOREOGRAPHED THE ANIME THEME SONG?!
  Shut up and dance with me
"Wow, 2 years ago???
Happy Easter dear friends.
Celebrate, live, dance, love...  "
pls like this so my friend uploads her boy with luv dance video!!! &gt;:) 
LAAAST SHE SAID DANCE BITCHES DANCE 
ros: so I want everybody to dance  AS IF ITS YOUR LAST 
" im about to drop some serious prom cliches

can i have this dance - hsm
naked - ella mai"
"7 photo one day answer  share 
youtube
dance
music
BreakingNews
BREAKING
YouTuber Mikh "
"So this song is called As If Its Your Last so i want everybody to dance like its YOUR LAST!!!!
-Ros 

ROS "
"Kill this love cover dance first try !!!
 "
"Rosie cracked me so bad when she said ""I want you to dance like it's your last""

Darn gurl

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
BLACKPINK"
*does rainbow rhodes dance* 
" Okay I legitimately forgot I could just use Rain Dance but yeah it absolutely can

I was mostly assu "
I wanna dance you into night.
"coachella week 2 gave us:

- jisoos jendeukie
- jisoo doing the wave
- we are just so happy
- lisa &amp; her engli "
i think ill just fast the day before and end it at dinner and ill workout early in the day and dance hella hard :)
 The Party Peter Sellers Dance scene 1968
ros threatening the entire crowd to dance  
Go We know the best seen in a dance.
 Lol don't ever again post this she can't dance for shiiiid
Its today! Come dance with us  at 11am  FREE!  
 Please give Lisa dance break and urge YG for promised next comeback in this year.
" Im not as confident. OR is making a BIG push... Recruiting teammates, start right away, same coast "
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAAASSHFRJTJKRT
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Turn Around by Phats &amp; Small on  
nowplaying music radio np Dance With You by Bowling For Soup    music radio rock 
Im high and happy
"Day 60 20042019 

this precious baby dance 

 "
I SAID DANCE 
   Trips to the hill country to visit friends or long walks where I can take p 
OMG!!! Here We Go Again.. Another Dance Craze Sweeping The Internet... JINYUS - JOIN IN   reggaemusic JSO reggae
"Now, let's dance in this harem! - Duke Venomania"
"Rosie: This song is called As If It's Your Last! So dance as if it's YOUR LAST!!!!

The Pinks' expressions: Shit, fam, is it that serious?"
" Hey, this is torture!! Can I place an order for immediate delivery? I've been on the dance floor for "
hey who is coming to the school dance they got piza 2$. caprisun
 He went back to planet Vulcan. But you have to go to the Enchanment Under the Sea Dance or hell return
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"Anotha 1 of dem nytz!!!
HKz  PhillyBound  TNR @ Concourse Dance Bar "
ROS  WANTS EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO U GUYS BETTER DANCE LIKE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST!!!!!! 
"Common trust goes so far. I swear on the grave of every white guy that talked highly of freedom, that this would se "
"A dance, whirling from horizon to horizon. The storm sweeps through the streets."
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Stay The Night [12 Version] by Billy Ocean on  
"badly wanna learn this dance routine but my body and mind's not cooperating me!!! GOT7  ,, stream: "
Oof I frgt Im teaching a dance on Monday n all I did was whip n eat pizza
I should srsly stop watching 1M dance studio vids. The hoe in me wants to dance to KCC's playlist. Jusq I can't anymoooooooore
"Jenchuli: *wondering why Rosie is not in formation for AIIYL*
Ros: Our song is called As If It's Your Last, I want "
i swear this song can be in dance dance revo
80s Funk Dance Music The Pointer Sisters Automatic 
Lisa dance moves is smooth and good even her pony didnt move at all wow 2019 inovation
Hasapiko - Greek Dance from slow until fast style 
dance_pooh
Ill dance on the sound of your breath
do drag sis  jskskdkd im too shy to dance and shit 
"""so this song is called as if it's your last SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST!"" "
" Thank you for GA , i love nuest because their music and dance , talented ,passion, hard worker , fr "
"We've got to get high enough to try,
Over the world, we've got to fly!
Come to the dance with firebird, he'll take us all, all right!"
" Haikyuu is personally my favorite but u've watched it already so,,

I've seen a lot of people say these "
Im so ready to dance my ass off in Punta Canaaaaaa
"Creations 
.
.
.
elofloff dance move movement art contemporarydance contact improvisation sun video "
The penguin below is bad at dance battle.
"this song is called as if its your last so i want everyone to dance as if its your last! 
 yess, chaeng scream "
dance like its your LAAAAAAAST 
canny wait to dance ma heed aff
I WANT EEVRUOEN TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAAH-
The CWL did litirgical dance during the morning Good Friday liturgy. So many people put $20s in the basket!! Wow. T 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Whatever You Do! Dont! by Shania Twain on  
"Ibiza comes to Tonbridge 

With a DJ line-up set to take you back to a time when British nightlife was gripped "
"Psalm 150:3 Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.

4 Praise him with the "
"The way ros shouted ""I want everybody to dance like it is your last!!! Mygooooood!!!"
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Night Birds by Shakatak on  
"Meet Wilson J-Samuel. A great Hip-Hop Artist and a Movie Actor, in Erhaze Film Production and currently i am doing "
Today's Dance YouTube Video The Chainsmokers's This Feeling (feat. Kelsea Ballerini) 
"This one time, you were there, dueling Kevin Costner from 'Waterworld'  and breaking my leg trying to create a fort "
"NCPA invites you for
WildWomen: A Festival of Metre, Music and Mysticism
A Multi-arts Celebration of the Feminin "
EVERYONE I WANT YOU TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAAAAAAASSSTTTTT!!!!!!!
I wanna dance lol
ros said i want everyone to dance like its ur last and i rlly did the whole choreo.. what rosie wants rosie gets
Ok and my 82 yo grandma just received a lap dance  THATS ENOUGH
"Remember Keepon? The robot designed to study child behaviour (and incidentally, dance to Spoon?) "
"I dreamed I was at a twenty one pilots show and almost everyone left before leave the city, we were like 10 left so "
 SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST BABY CNDNDNDN
"""Dance with the devil - Immortal technique""
Has to be the darkest most painful song I've ever heard.
True hip-hop horror!"
   Im sure the two greater demons settled the score by having a dance battle in N 
were just a bunch of lost 20-somethings trying to dance and cry thru it
This is why Im fucking scared to even attempt a dance cover... 
No Billie I have dont that dance since my wife have died
be honest do u think this ice on my wrist will actually make me look better when I dance :/
If you can dance theyll bring out the cameras
"DIONYSUS CHOREO WAS MADE BY MY ALL TIME FAVORITE DANCE TEAM, THE LAB??? MISS SIENNA??? OHMYGOD????? I SHOULD HAVE "
Let's go baby and dance now Miss Jackson by Panic! At The Disco Feat. Lolo on  
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
" Nothing, I just a sleep today and and I'm demonstrating a dance boy with Luv.  
Love u guys.."
so i want everybody to DANCE LIKE IF ITS YOUR LAST 
Let's Dance 2019: Oliver Pocher begeistert als Britney Spears beim Boys-vs-Girls-Battle - RTL Online 
  Been doing that rave since I was 15 in 2007. The music has always been hard to dance to but 
so this song is called as if its your last and I WANT YOU ALL TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!!!/&amp;&amp;:&amp;2
"ughhhh , i looove how Marshallese's Dance !! "
DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST??
 Is that the setup with for half joycons and Mario kart and smash and just dance on the other side? That caravan is sick
 That light can dance better than me:(
"Well, now that I've stirred up a non-murder hobo version of the chicken dance polka on a loop in my"
just literally everyone is been improving their dance skills 
   The idea of it takes two I thought was to give insight into the week of training and to 
  look at us at Simmons middle school dance..
"Dear  I've seen that damn Lumify commercial more times than I can count, and the song is driving me insane. P "
I swear hot nigga was the last dance I learned how to do 
"nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Tremor (Radio Edit) by Dimitri Vegas, Martin Garrix &amp; Like Mike on "
  I lost my heart to the fabulous Miss Chris last weeked on the dance floor of Sandrin 
 GOODNIGHT! AND OMG HARIN LEGENDARY EYEBROW DUDE WITH SMOOTH DANCE MOVES.. we stan
What we learn is that theres so much parody in the NHL that it doesnt matter what place you land as along as you 
"NowPlaying on Astro Radio: 
Dead Can Dance - Indus"
They say that as if when they were trainees hoseok wasnt trained in musical theory etc to gain the basics to then p 
"It's a tap dance to you, it's a minefield to me and I'm watching every step."
IF ROS SAYS DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST THEN DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST PERIODT
Just had a lap dance from a stripper at a bar so thats new
Ayooo so i was wondering if someone wants to dance with me at the concert  the first day of LA 4-05-19  hit me up 
I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST 
Seeing white girls dance to back that ass up has to be the funniest shit ever. 
"this song is called as if its your last so i want everyone to dance as if its your last!

-ROS 2019 

 BLACKPINKxCoachella_Day2"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Suzy Q by Creedence Clearwater Revival on  
"Come on, let's dance! OK. Don't ---- .Beautiful man yeah ------- yeah step by. TKbot"
80s Funk Dance Music Junior Mama Used To Say 
"no one: 
12 year old me in the mirror: oOHHo so you wanna have a DANCE OFF!?!????!!?!!"
cant stop screaming over rosie saying i want you to dance like its your laAASST
Bop to the top is a masterpiece *10 year old me learning all the dance moves hoping my parents wont come in 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Whistle &amp;40;Wiwek Remix&amp;41;
 - Katy Tiz
 "
  Thats quite interesting. Kathak is a great form of Indian classical dance. She must be encouraged 
      all investigations were compress 
"I bet none of Y'all can dance as well as this kid . I mean.  He can Shaku, Leg work and Zanku. Madddd    "
 Basically this dance is based on Tai Chi action
Dont u find it weird how the dance practice video for boy with luv isnt out yet... 
I dont understand this whoa dance. Stop it.
 Thanks 
"BITCH SCREAM AND DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST
ROS SAID SO BTCH
BLACKPINKXCOACHELLA_D2"
" The head of my dance school said I wasnt good enough to get into one in England... so I went, got a "
" Try to dance Dionysus, this not finished good "
 WHAT SONG IS THIS I FORGOT
 Comparing MJ with Beyonce is an insult oo. She no reach! Most children born even after MJ's demise know 
"He ruled ovr our hearts as Swayam Shekhawat &amp; it cont wth all his acting projects..

From being second runner up on "
Rumbero world salsa tour from Milano to Calabria. Que Ricooo Max and Laura dance school  April 20 
 Us on the dance floor 
Ameynra BellyDance Petal Skirt Chiffon White Pink Animal Print Size S New OOAK  via  ForSale
"""this song is called as if it's your last so i want everybody to dance like it's your last!!!"" YES CHAENG SIGAW PAAAAAAA"
everybody dance like its your last!!! PERIOD
ROSE SAID DANCE BITCH DANCE PINKCHELLA 
  I got a lap dance from a gorgeous brunette in Ricks on Bourbon once and she told me I could do w 
" Not enough 
Lack of grit and spirit!
You can't dance in those games Flames!
Backlund was the only "
 Bp dance line and khalid
Lisa killed the dance and all her raps beyond proud  BLACKPINKxCOACHELLA_D2
"I went to one of my childhood friends wedding tonight, as we were dancing he looks at me tells me how proud and ha "
Bitches that could dance &gt;
 Just dance then...
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Just Can't Get Enough by The Saturdays on  
ros said yall gon dance whether you like it or not
"no one:

Ros: THIS IS OUR LAST SONG SO YOU BETTER FUCKING DANCE"
OKAY REAL QUESTION IS HOW THEY GONNA DANCE ITS SO CROWDED
- Thanks for listening to my show -  Special K  TheBlast  Dance
"""this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody dance like it's your LAAAAAAAST!!!""

park chaeyoung, e "
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST!!!!
"  Kaka, do you honestly see us breaking the cartel? In my opinion is we are firing non loya "
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST! roseanne omg asfdkdnsnsjn BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 ros
im just tryna dance
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!! i swear she almost cried 
I will not dance to the Macarena or any other choreographed dance. Its a betrayal of my culture 
"that ""i want everybody to dance as if it's their last"" from miss roseanne park skskssksksk
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
" silentdreamers13: silentdreamers13: And I dont know why but with you Id dance, in a storm in my... "
I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!!!
"Dance it like it is your last - Ros
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
"
THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YOU TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!
"I dont wanna slow dance, in the DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARK."
 Are they off to dance somewhere ?
13. I became a dance troupe member in grades 5-6.
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE IF ITS YOUR LAST
chaeng just snapped at boombayah and as if it's your last YESSSSS GIRLLLLL DANCE LIKE AS IF THIS IS YOUR LAST BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
  ATEEZ is getting better at sexy dance and no one is safe anymore 
s/o to those songs that feel like someone pulling your lonely ass off the wall of a school dance to join their circle and jam with them
"   I am also in this
I was very excited
This song is a fun song to sing "
ROS: THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS YOUR LAST SO I WANT YALL TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST BLACKPINKxCoachella_Day2 
"So i want you all to dance as if its your last. -ros 

Such a pro Roseanne  Your scream tho. "
"everybody dance like its your last!!! AAHHCCKKK
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
   best dance moves hahah
if ros told you to dance then you better fucking dance like it's your last one bitch
"""i want you all to dance like its your last"" hdixjdjd DANCE"
this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody to dance like its yoUR LAST!!!!! Bdjwkwha rosie is so funny pls
 OMGGG LISA AND KHALID DANCE
roseanne said dance as if it's your last uglies
DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LASTSSTSTSTST
"Because I'm an idiot and took a long nap this afternoon, I am now wide awake looking up YouTube videos of fun movie dance scenes. "
"""THIS SONG IS CALLED AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST"" 

Ros te amo"
"""SO EVERBODY DANCE LIKE IT IS YOUR LAST!!!!"" DAMN Y'ALL MAKE MY ROSIE MAD SHE AIN'T KIDDING BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
ross voice crack at the end when she say dance like its ur last 
"hoseok de terno branco se rebolano cantando just dance: a
eu: sir can i have some d?"
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LA%%+ST!!
"some of the greater truths of the movies of my childhood: 
all the best ones contained the song ""tequila"" somewhere "
ROS: I WANT YALL TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOU MF LAAAAAST!!! 
"I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!!!

yes, maam ros

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
SHE SAID DANCE BITCHHHDJSJ
Ros: THIS SONG IS AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST SO EVERYBODY LET'S DANCE LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST! BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
"""Summer camp is the time of doing something big. Being a camper is something that most of us miss, as adults. Those "
"I'll come around, come around, come around!
Let's dance and come around, come around!"
"Remember you are all people and all people are you.
Remember you are this universe and this universe is you.
Rememb "
 One of my only good memories with you was in Vegas and the song was playing all of us blocked the ent 
NP The Chart Top 25 Western Song | 21  ft. Lay &amp;  - Shut Up and Dance THECHART
Your weekend is Lit! go get it!  Dance like you mean it!
DancingShoesReady PID19 starts at 09.00 in the large dance space.
" Against Charizard Y, Vaporeon can win with Rain Dance
Against Charizard X: Not seeing a win here, R "
this song is called as if its your last so i want everybody to dance like its your last! -ros
This song is called As If Its Your Last so I want everyone to dance as if its their last
I want to dance w Khalid 
Chaeng going out of line just to encourage everyone to dance like it's their last. We stan an entertainer BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
this song is called as if its your last so i want everyone to dance as if its your last! BLACKPINKxCoachella_Day2
"""I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST!!!!"" ROS IS MAD MAD"
I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE IT YOUR L A S T  LISTEN TO MTHRFCKIN ROS DOIN THE MOST 
i want you to dance LIKE ITS YOUR LAST BITCB ALRIGHT
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Galaxies &amp; Stars (Featuring Ce'Cile) by Doctor P on 
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LASSHCJT
everybody dance like its your last!!! GEKDJSKSKSK
THUS SONG IS CALLED AS IF ITS UR LAST SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE AS IF ITS UR LAsttt-
Listen now: Street Dance by Break Machine on 
I am tough for a reason and it is to fucking destroy the music. I dance hard.Hannah Moskowitz
I hate incredible cycles that move because they always hate simple hammers that dance.
ros screaming her lungs out EVERYONE I WANT YOU TO DANCE AS IF ITS YOUR LAST I cant even with this girl
This boy came to dance with me and I said Do you know you smell like outside? 
SO I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAAAAAST!!!!
"Design and craft your own bug accessories, sculpt miniature bugs out of clay, then jump, slither or roll onto the d "
Id just throw a wedding of me and  myself to have fun friends come over and dance like theres no tomorrow. 
"Blackia's Song 'Nakhra': Ninja, Gurlej Akhtar Team Up For This Amazing Dance Number
ninja gurlejakhtar blackia
"
"I WANT EVERYONE TO DANCE, AS IF ITS YOUR LAST!"
"'kyle' isnt some dumbass dog boy with permanent 5 o clock shadow and big glasses, 'kyle' is ur coworker at home dep "
OMSJSKSM ROS I WANT EVERYBODY TO DANCE LIKE ITS UR LAST
DANCE LIKE IT IS YOUR LAAST
IF ROS SAID DANCE EVERYONE BETTER BE DANCING GJFJKDSKS
 I will never go to another wedding with my kids - even if theyre invited! Rarely go out these days 
DANCE LIKE ITS YOUR LAST
this new pre workout makes me wanna dance
"  exactly. their only ""talent"" is having pretty faces and maybe some dance. their music is "
 &lt;Reminding her of the weakness tears brought.... Silently she continued to drink.... Watching those 
" Lets Shut Up &amp; Dance - Jason Derulo, LAY, NCT 127"
 Dont hate on Draenor.. I was there .. I watched you Tank in WoD Remember  What I miss tho? The IC 
"Today is the Nedbank Cup Semis... 

Im looking forward to the tactical battle between Komphela and Dan Dance... "
Dont say a word while we dance with the devil.
this fortnite-dance was made for him! 
If the whole world was watching I'd still dance with you
 I can't dance at all and I'm 31. You're doing great.
"DANCE BREAK TOGETHER AMYY
 "
"Listen now on 
Good morning friends  Thunder Music Radio Web
in Pesaro Italy  invite you to "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Panic Room
 - AuRa &amp; CamelPhat
 "
"i wanna rock with u... all night
dance u into day... sunlight
SI HYUCK A TI TE HABLO"
" &lt;She nearly snarled at each of the men who tried. 

As the couples moved to the dance floor, holding "
my dance partner &amp; best friend forevvaaa  
   Omg he can do anything sing dance
A Dance Collab with them. i cant wait. this is all for you 
Little Miss Ari was out here tearing up the dance floor tonight! Shell be back out tomorrow for Frankie Ballard an 
my playlists only know two extremes: soft depression or queer dance party
" Hi guys, my friends made a dance cover video of KILL THIS LOVE - BLACKPINK. Would u mind to check this out "
"Dont worry be happy! Grant yourself permission to experience joie de vivre, nobody gets out alive, so live life, d "
"if anyone is saying jisoo cant dance then sorry but youre stupid and unrelevant
 "
" &lt;Not a night she had dressed so diligently for. 

Ten minutes had passed, her eyes upon the public w "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Go High by Double Dancefloor 2012 VOL 2 on 
"Kyuhyun: ""I'm Kyuhyun who's in charge of the dance, image, and talking in SJ."" Eunhyuk: ""Are you okay?"" FunnyQuotes"
ok i must credit them this they almost always have i wanna dance with somebody and another one bites the dust which 
 looks like our power duo title is being challenged. Time for a dance off 
Chris Browns upcoming song Wobble Up will be yet another piece of formulaic trash that will inspire a dance of t 
" Morning sun, we're still shocked for yesterday's performances!!! You really killed it with your awesome ra "
 He love dance so much 
Now playing Don't You (Forget About Me) by Simple Minds music best hits rock pop dance on  
thank u dance for training my balance.. im standing on the train playing BTS CYPHER PT.3: KILLER (FEAT. SUPREME BOI) [RM]
Live Streaming RADIO GEBANG PURWOREJO DIGITAL  lewat  HELLO  COME ON DANCE WITH ADIEN DJ 1 HOURS
ahhh i made dance team !! HAHA ..cant wait to dance with amazing people  
George Michael - Amazing  TheBlast  Dance 
"you can dance, you can jive 
having the time of your life 

   |      |
   \          /
 ____| |_____
/        __/
\_"
Their is nothing to be adopted here when I watched the video. In fact its immoral and appalling. How can you dance 
"Warm down sessions currently underway at Queens Sports Club with Antivirus dance crew on stage. 

 
NSSARun "
"Who is ready for May Eve Sabbat?    The feast of wine &amp; Roses.

*Maypole from Wolfa Coven 2018 - while the Maypo "
Its 2 am and I just got the urge to dance Cumbia lmfao
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Tonite (Steve Forest &amp; Nicola Fasano Radio Mix) by Nicola Fasano Feat. Kat Delun 
"CAN'T YOU SEE? I DON'T WANNA SLOW DANCE, I DON'T WANT TO SLOW DANCE, IN THE DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARK, DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARK."
Best rock pop dance music Now I'm In Love by Evelyn Champagne King on  
"ready or not
here i come
dance dance dance
have some fun"
Aiite then. You are invited to dance Salsa at our church on Sunday. Its going to be power packed 
Nowplaying Jaydee - Plastic Dreams (Future 2003 mix) (Lawler Nip 'n Tuck edit) Dance House Techno 
"no one:

us at dance: "
"My gut instinct is to invite bacteriophages to any future dance party ...

innovation AMR microbiome "
"I just counted it   when the MV was released, they mostly released the dance practice after 9 days."
We too drunk to dance but we stay having fun together  
Now playing Don't You (Forget About Me) by Simple Minds music best hits rock pop dance on  
yall should watch this tearin up my heart dance cover its so good 
 With Hob we both love to dance (even though I don't really know how). But He's my bias because I admi 
I donated in support of Children's Miracle Network Hospitals Dance Marathon! 
Dont ask me to dance if you cant dance...cuz I cant dance neither
Might as well join the dance.
"Great run by Misty Spirit yesterday for Richard Fahey and owner John Dance, had a little each way at 12s"
"Omg! This baby definitely can dance blackpink's song better than me hahaha hes really cute, my heart. "
"Hour 64: We are dancing and getting bodied. 

Solange is here now.

Its an old school dance

We have lost all flui "
live Without You (Dazers Remix) by Avicii ft. Sandro Cavazza music  radio onair dance
 That modern dance degree finally getting a use.
"Hi rate my dance, anyone? "
"24) I dance, and a little bit of keyboard with a little bit of acting I guess, but DANCE "
If you ask me out to dance I expect you to know how to dance 
I think Im single because I know the line dance to Cotton Eye Joe and that intimidates men
" he only helped seulgi because she didnt know the dance step, and you call that love?  also, seulgi doe "
Can you teach me how to dance? then how to love also?  yes lets go 
 i cant dance  LMAO
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Early In The Morning by The Gap Band on  
I dont really do these functions but since we here u tryna dance wit me?
 and  please learn this dance because we will be doing this together when gunnar come to 
i got asked out to the 8th grade dance by the most attractive guy in my grade omg im deadd
"repost
bloodyhotlately 

Absolutely enjoy the dance, sing, drink
and swim together "
"If we have to dance, Megan gonna ace it fr"
Dont forget to join us at the dance party in Main Events and enjoy a speciality drink at the pop up bar outside th 
TV Girls and boys having fun at  only on Saas Bahu Aur Betiyaan ...for all this dance gana Masti do n 
 I have no idea tbh he just hit me right in the heart with his goofy self in the war of hormone dance prac 
  HSUSHD YEEEE CANT WAIT TO DANCE WITH MY BEST FRIENDDDD I LOVE YOU..PROUD OF BOTH OF YOU
 practicing dionysus dance 
"The world famous Sydney_Opera_House hosts more than 1600 performances every year which include ballet, opera, "
Bruh I really need to learn how to dance to Spanish music better 
I may dance awkward on insta but I go hard in my living room 
Hm~hmm~ I need to remember the moves for this new dance~.
Dont dance on me in the club if we not fucking after
Can't wait to see Dan Dance Malesela with his crazy celebrations  NedbankCup
 Love In The First Degree. Had full playground-choreographed dance routine to go with it - ah the memories!
I danced for 6 hours today for a video project and I have another dance video project tomorrow ;-; rip me and my legs
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : PRTCL
 - Nicky Romero Ft. Spyder
 "
                                Sasha - the son of world-famous figure skater Zhenya Plushen 
 This is my uwu dance
- DJ Special K  TheBlast  Dance
 Honestly my favorite hard songs have been Backstreet Beatdown (cause it's hard af but also dance af at th 
" 
O praise him with sound of trumpet,
Praise him with lute and harp.
Praise him with timbrel and dance,
Prai "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Untilted by M. Rsner on  
"LAWD... 

Video: Sheesh: Shorty Thick AF Showing Off Her Dance Moves! -  via "
"I saw the actual most attractive man Ive ever seen at pike rose tonight, he had long hair half up w a bandana and "
  Lisa Taxi dance again
"The Youtube chat proved ineffective, so instead we had to communicate via Doing the '(you are) NOT the father' dance.
CardsAgainstHumanity"
"Good day, dance with me!"
Deee-Lite - Groove Is in the Heart [Dance] via /r/Music 
  Please I want shownu to dance this black pink on concert of monsta I want shownu to dance this
 i know you can dance gid since elementary!! Hahaha miss you too abby 
Cody wants to dance like me so bad 
Drink some of my manzanita so I dont spill it while I dance to Mariah Carey
Friends made at dance are often friends for a very long time 
 Wow. Such an amazing dance.
"Imagine standing right next to Khalid, watching him dance, and you just stare at him with a blank face like you don "
Jason suggests doing a dance and cycling 2 km..
"Pulling down the dress is part of the dance, I dont be minding that lil break time when you twerking and you gotta pull down the dress"
 aw our dance  
  Do your two children see the clips you often do there?  If you were single without children I can und 
Organic Shapes - Dance On The Silky Way
 can we just ban people who clap along to a song or dance routine please? Thanks.
"A Lion went to fuck, I sings I like to the Ass, if you (My whole bag of Kelly sipping Cristal So I could dance now Make that"
 Have heard you dance salsa very classically. 
This dance is the joy of existence.
"R2H Education Pvt. Ltd Looking for Dance &amp; Music Teachers in Delhi, India. Apply now on  "
 Sarah - You could have my other black shoes if they would be helpful for the other dance 
"A mi mente viene el break dance y bastaaaaa SKSJLSJSKSBSKAN 

MIC Drop (Steve Aoki "
Apparently my neighbor can tell Im a dance teacher because of my ankles
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party atCoachella  "
Everyone dancing salsa and Im here chillin cuz I cant dance
"Cue all of the bitter  fans with the I told you sos.  Thing is flames were in the dance, likely a "
Lol they keep saying why these boys keep  walking up-trying to dance with you lol 
"Lisa performing onstage is just on another level! the confidence, stage presence and that rap + dance skills combo = perfect"
"FREE IKONIK SKIN + SCENARIO DANCE GIVEAWAY!

 Retweet to enter!  "
i have dance practice for 3 days straight idk that dancing is this tiring how can bts be able to go through this ev 
Dance Through the Night 
I want to dance again 
... not when dance with the devil exists 
" Showing respect to HemantKarkare and every 26/11 martyr
CONg way

Party Dance
And then use NAC to sav "
I hate not knowing about to dance bruh
" Week in Arts: Gentleman Jack, Bad Bunny and a Musical About Psychoanalysis"" by THE NE "
"So I went to a party and won a dance contest because of you lol  
It was just among friends so it was "
 Dance party!
 You dont even dance 
"Hey baby, wanna dance with peepaw?"
 Thank you sis! And you have to teach me your dance moves someday 
  I said Almost the girl can dance
"City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts :  
 "
"NCT 127, Lay EXO &amp; Jason Derulo Lets Shut Up &amp; Dance Album (sharing)

- Jaehyun postcard : 40.000
- Yuta, Taeil, J "
" A Sauzee free-kick was driven in low and hard. Lehmann and Gould lunged for the ball, and as it bounc "
 Is that trump doing a happy dance?
" The visuals definitely made up for the music. But seeing you dance again, definitely was my highlight."
"  No it wasn't.
But it's my fav dance video of all time.
So thanks "
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  JSO reggaemusic dancehalllink reggae dancehall
yall ever eat healthier than usual cos you watched bts dance or is that just me
  You had more than me...  I grew up in  a small central Illinois town &amp; &amp; had a black fem 
"It's April 20, 2019 at 02:15AM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
"
NCT 127 'Simon Says' Dance Tutorial Part. 1 | Super Beginner Class  via "
   can't be rivaled. Althrough his life as an artist he was geared towa 
"So my local gay bar was having a prom tonight, and naturally I got on the dance floor and tried my best to dance. T "
9. i watch choreo video's &amp; dance 
"yo ya lista buscando dionysus, trivia: just dance, trivia: seesaw, trivia: love, 134340, singularity, crystal snow, "
        
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Pony by Ginuwine on  
   Thanks yeah Remo is a decent Director when it comes to making a Dance Flic 
" i have to say you dance so amazingly , plus your looks , just so special xx"
"Come and see Jessloserette's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: girl HOT DANCE  
 "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Aldeia De Ogum by Joyce on  
"Ameynra Belly Dance Chiffon Skirt 1 Slit, Petals. Sexy, All sizes &amp; colors, New  via  ForSale"
" I had a salsa dance party planned tonight but at this rate, I think Ill just stay home "
" Tell me when there's acid rain, I'ma make my fake friends dance in there. "
"Title: Stepping out the dance

artlune inkonpaper artoftheday portrait abstractart "
 Heres another one: Persona 3.4.5: Milking All Dance.
" 

 JKHGF
 DANCE COVEEEEEEEEER
 SLEEP OVER"
"Watched Kanchana3 yesterday   master 's acting , dance n all semma mass   , "
i need dionysus dance tutorial NOW
" interpretive . . dance -

Can we do an interpretive dance like the stars did -"
Dance Again (feat. Pitbull) - Jennifer Lopez
"what to listen to, what to ignore. She doesn't know if Steve's here because he chooses to be, or if he's been comma "
"her feet to dance with him. Or slipping her the occasional dog-eared novel. Or even once a royal blue dress, one th "
G way 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np A Boy Named Sue by Johnny Cash on  
"Slow dance
"
If only I could dance in MMD... Mom should figure out how to get that done!
 music and dance
I need  to give me dance lessons u hairy beast I love you
 Nd i just binge watched her dance vids a day before yesterday biTCHDHDHSJ
Pleaseee im so speechless know thisI'm so very very proud for u BTS and also the Lab toofor u guys who doesn't 
" They are 2 rnb singers who turned pop singers that perform n dance ...
 Same lane different eras"
"Love like you've never been hurt.
Dance like nobody's watching.
Sing like nobody's listening.
Work like you don't n "
*insert happy dance*
Nothing more romantic than sweating my ass off at an 80s dance party at Knott's with my boy 
"This starts Monday, April 22. They have shoes and tights available at the school. Yey! Get your little girls and bo "
The first superhero franchise to give me a big budget musical with dance fighting wins my loyalty forever
"Here's your guide to YourBestSummer at 

Join us for a 2-month dance workshop from some of the best dancer "
this guy can fking dance better than me 
"As someone who doesnt dance, I do have to say that most dances that come out of America look stupid as hell"
 Maybe it was a lil dance lol a little A town stomp 
" The delights of choosing music to dance Tango. However, if I get into it,  a 400-tweet thread may be insufficient."
Dont say a word while we dance with the devil 
" Here is my Entry 

Dance like a GABBAR steps, Punjabi Style.
FOURS &amp; SIXES in punjabi Style..  "
I think they will release the dance practice for Boy with Luv tomorrow  (04/21)  
"Response super
Wonderful dance  wonderful performance"
"Yesterday in the house nextdoor was Neil, a dog enthusiast. That day all they wanted to do was dance because they "
"Fuckers in school telling me, asked to dance to one of my songs in Montreal!"
       Super anna ia 
"Camila and I living our best lives in Toronto for yet another cousins wedding.

Invite us to your wedding to fill "
Pole Dancing Without Nudity or G-Strings. Just Express Yourself. 
   Last year Bucks in 6 Have fun with the Sixers Next Round Lebron gone ki 
"Sometimes ya gotta do a lil dance at work!! 
dancer igdancers atwork performer fullout freestyle "
Yunho really does remind me of a beagle or some kind of active puppy because even for a song where u just stand and 
" jaemin went on nylon and did some bingo of his likes and dislikes, some idiot flipped off mark in america "
bc I miss the dance room NewProfilePic 
I barely know how to dance &amp; you will ALWAYS see me in the dance floor. Having the time of my life .
"wowaka337days day 10: talkie dance (part 3)
wow im so behind yeesh i'll catch up with two more drawings tonight "
"Had a bit of a stranger danger moment this evening.

My homie asked me to go to this Daft Disco / House party. It "
"    Currie, at 1:49 to 1:54, it looks like hes doing a dance that people "
" Oh wow, did your little puppet boy dance just like you told him to? You must be so proud. It's sti "
I came home for Easter and my mom just told me she double checked online that I wasnt coming home just to see danc 
The story goes that cityfolk insist there lies a butcher shop where shadows dance with a sri
"Help to clear Hoseok's searches 

Hoseok  is Beautiful 
Hoseok is Cute
Hoseok is Handsome
Hoseok is Pretty
Hoseok i "
"so who you gonna take to the couples day dance?

i dont know yet

well im standing right here in front of you"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Hey Hey Hey
 - Laurent Wery Ft. Swiftkid
 "
The breathtakingly horrific real estate advert everyone is talking about 
"Say goodbye, as we dance with the devil tonight
Don't you dare look at him in the eye
As we dance with the devil tonight"
 I feel this tonight especially because I tried to dance tonight at a wedding and kind of collapsed 
Louie and I stayed in tonight and had a little dance party 
  I just want to be afforded the opportunity to dance with her next to me but ugh
 huhu thank youu!! looking forward sa lap dance chz
i listen to this on speakers and dance while im carrying my dog 
"If i didnt know how to dance and my boyfriend wanted to dance, Ill go dance i wouldnt be an amargada."
"Fly. Swim. Travel. Dance. Walk. Skip. Okay, it's gay, whatever, skip."
"Come and see Jessloserette's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: girl HOT DANCE  
 "
Corporate org requirements for a Chief Executive are high enough to guarantee the orgs stability and progress. It's 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Luv 2 Ball by Impromp2 on  
I love watching mexicants dance
"His verse, the way he dance arghhhhhh. "
COACHELLA IS SO FUCKING FUN BUT WHY CANT A BRING A BEER ON THE DANCE FLOOR
We making the SUGE line dance a thing? 
 Soooo sweet dance
"Hoseok  is Beautiful 
Hoseok is Cute
Hoseok is Handsome
Hoseok is Pretty
Hoseok is Art
Hoseok is Ethereal
Hoseok is "
You must give everything to make your life as beautiful as the dreams that dance in your imagination. 4444
rock pop dance classic hits now: Stuff Like That by Quincy Jones on  
   I still remember the whole dance unfortunately
"T: I dont like when you dance like a stripper 
Me: lmaoooo 
T: make me wanna sock you in the back of the head "
"Please release the Boy With Luv dance practise video  ! 

 BTS"
Deadass does anyone else get the Hamster Dance song stuck in their head
my favorite thing in modern dance class was happy baby pose
Knee-length Satin MiniSkirt Skirt Dance Style  - All Colors - Sizes S M L  via  ForSale
"I can't stop thinking that  wrote another bop, and it's upbeat with trumpet, and he plays guitar, a "
" Many of the stars we see died long ago
So if they did, their travelling light is some sort of interpretive dance"
Wake Forest University is going to dance  as monks because they are  quaint beautiful PredictionScript
"Run, skip, dance, jump and let your feet guide you to fun.
.
.
Shop at 
.
Shoes Sneakers "
 Are they doing a rain dance?
"Paine: No holding back. If you can't keep up, stay off my dance floor. (Paine spherechanges to Songstress dressphere.)"
 For me Jimin just captures all of my attention most of the times:( like his little cute ass smile :(( and 
the audience wants another    
  in your neck of the would the weather tantrum could erupt my 6pm tonight    stellar weather this Ea 
 Im South African. So Gumboot step Dance yea .
 I appreciate this but cannot dance even slightly. Godspeed 
"Im not even a huge fan of beyonce but saying shes too overrated is beyond me. 8 months working on every light, ev "
Apink - Mr. Chu (Awhite Dance Cover Project) Music Video 
omg im about to dance to shake it
 a bitch lonely but still wants to dance skdnskdn
"
           
This upload was 15th in the 
technohouse chart, 32nd in the "
I swear Mexicans dont give a fuck about a beat when they dance 
" Another place this change is happening is in dance wear. Choices used to be black, white, or ""nude"" "
Drunk people at gold Spike still dance better than Drake.
sorry last one but this ones important  thanks for the dance lesson v much needed i love the 1975 
dm me when you can dance like Chris Brown 
"Hey dek its been two years since huli akong sumayaw, right now I gained weight (not that much) nangangalawang na  "
Shouldnt question if you ever stood a chance with him better question is did you enjoy to dance with him
"You don't need to be part of this denomination to see the beauty of the way they dance, and even the joy and libert "
 Bijj have you heard Taeil's voice? Have you heard all their voices be it singing or rapping? I swear to B 
I wanna dance all over you rn
can ppl stop putting lisas solo dance on my tl uh
"Getting into the the flow of New Style Hustle. Learning, creating, sharing, teaching, evolving and growing this bea "
"the rising sun, the fire within,
the blooming flowers, the dew drops on its skin,
the scent in the air, the butterf "
first dance? lol 
  Omg just noticed on his shirt it says dance. So perfect 
"Lets Dance!

Blondie, Heart Of Glass

 "
i love seeing white people dance to spanish music when theyre drunk
"Today is looking lovely again. A dance class, some gardening, good food and lots of reading. And SUNSHINE  "
  Love to see the dance of democracy in journalism field as well ...Aap log apne mein hi Lage 
chicken dance!
      But everyone knows you don't 
So today's the day! The day to dance! Good luck to all taking part in the DANCE EXPERIENCE at Bluebell Ballet Studi 
Hi there! We're now playing 2 Unlimited - Tribal Dance ...... catch our Online Station on 
"Open registrations for New Batch-a prefect place to acquire a new Talent. Join us.

FOR MORE DETAILS:
Contact: O11- "
Dance The Fat Away And Have Fun. -  soccer footballresults Celebrity perfect 
Now playing Freedom Jazz Dance by Bunny Brunel &amp; Friends!
"She'll dance at the way they dealt with, like they did to Mary, Queen of her demise in English history."
 Watching dionysus dance all my time i really really love it..cant keep smiling and do the dance even my 
        
im watching someone great &amp; seeing gina rodriguez dance around in her underwear was so sweet bc they didnt edit o 
FCI Dog dance World Championship 2016  Freestyle final  - Lusy Imberger...sasumb 
 Dance Practice.
  I kick myself for not watching. I have never seen a better dance off. I hope they kept both lol
I need to revise the dance routine for tomorrow! Ria-senpai and Hikaru-chan are counting on me! UU
CINA: Another Day and Another Dance  
i just almost lost consciousness because i'm going so hard at dance games. i don't know whether to be proud or terrified.
Epic dance break with exorcism 
Still trying to figure out your 420 partay plans? I posted a list of some public events in todays newsletter (you 
The Umbrella Academy | Dance Like No One's Watching | Netflix  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Booyah 2018 Remixes
 - Showtek Ft. We Are Loud, Sonny Wilson
 "
- uhhh.. uhh.. i like your style! i be seeing you cut up when you dance  and you garbage in imessage games :)
"As a Latino author others want to decide for you that your stories will only speak to Latinx readers.We all change, "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby When The Bassline Drops by Craig David &amp; Big Narstie on 
 LISA x ROS  Khalid  the dance collab we never knew we needed 
"Be ready to dominate the zumba dance floor!
Spread some joy in the Zumba  Happiness Cold Shoulder Top
Grab your r "
 2nd day of dance?
i cant believe my dance coach hugged bts
"    No pidiot
 some dance bar, your mom's collegue"
Wait i just realized bh haven't released Boy with Luv dance practice right
wow i love their efforts in making us laugh although they have the inability to dance TT
Th people in the car next to me are trying so hard to dance @ me and get my attention but Im STUBBORN and I will NOT
Micheal Jackson got dance step people all over the world copy till date even Beyonc will tell you MJ is the best entertainer ask her.
" 

 BTS (syempre naman unang una toh!!!)
 BLACKPINK IN YOUR AREA
 FOREVER YOUNG (dance coveeeeeeeeeeer)"
Learning how to square dance and DYING
Afrika Bambaataa - Just get up and dance Trumpet mix
Someone come escort Tristan out of the club.... hims cant dance 
 You say that like my goal is to make you fail at the dance.
 Yes you dance like sunny doel with our party cap. Look beautiful
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : DANCE 2 TRANCE Part 2 2019 by chrissyblade74 Listen again or download  
ok first my dance coach meets bts and dances as their backup and now my irl choreographed for them... THKXKSKEKDLDLEL BYE
Had fun playing games with the community and raiding  - fun stuff. Raid dance is on point. So many stre 
  Hoeseok mind : Just dance
Best rock pop dance music Now Lay All Your Love On Me by ABBA on  
"NOW PLAYING ON KLEK: Rob Base - ""Get on the Dance Floor"" LISTEN LIVE NOW: "
  Nope. Lizards dance around peacock feathers
"Today @ work: some 28 year-old stranger asked for my number, the cops arrested a lady on drugs who was rolling arou "
"Actually, I dont see anything special.. 70% of girls dance better.. "
all the black pink stans are coming out !! im struggling bcz i cant understand SHIT but theyre TALENTED ASFC AND 
" also the number of comments!
3RACHA has 25,03 
Vocal line has 18.08.01
Dance line has 44,19 "
"i feel this one more than ANYTHING. i cried countless times to my mom, bestfriends, dance sisters about my ex once "
Dance 4life
Ladies cute on the dance floor... long haired boys... tall girls in dresses... sparkles drag queens so pretty I was 
"I she wanna be a dancer, I'll enroll her on a dance class."
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listenin "
ten is sitting in a corner watching bp dance with khalid right now
also dance teacher hoseok..... inch resting
" kurough music video I don't understand the language, but I definitely love the vibe. But wait musi "
 I havent eaten yet cuz here is 9 am in the morning Im planning to eat around 11 am cuz at 12 am I have to go to my dance lesson
"
Mary Jane's Last Dance Tom Petty Lyrics  via "
"dancing or singing?  i dance a lot, pero i need some major revisions on my singing hahahahaha "
 Please share I wanna see I love dance photoshoots even tho I don't dance 
anyways uh kyungsoo please come over here and tap dance on my face 
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : DANCE 2 TRANCE Part 2 2019 by  Listen again or download  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Prayer For The Dying by Seal on  
"Listen to Call On Me by S.I.Y.A np on SoundCloud
 Music NewMusicAlert Mp3 YouTube "
Whitney Houston - I Wanna Dance With Somebody 
 Abamyele thos man is super talented. He can sing and dance. There is none like him.
SWEET SOUND Of The RudeDog Show Podcast - Rudy Reyes ( Welcomes Back Pierre Desir ( 
" 

 Colours
 BTS
 dance cover (dunno why)"
R.I.O. - Like I Love You (Dance video) 
"if its not dance wiv me by dizzee rascal its, and I cannot stress this enough, not getting played"
 Haha your not wrong. But that just seems to be what people like. However their are rare instances w 
"Raining day

Music rain chill HOMECOMING dance deephouse YouTubeMusic darkvision hongkong "
"straight line: 
____________________________________

dashed line: 
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ 

everg "
thought i couldn't dance until i saw this . 
"I wanted to end it all during the first song &amp; dance number in Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again! but nevertheless, I persisted. strong"
i just saw a commercial for a tv show about a time traveling ballerina and the tag line her boyfriend comes up with 
" Today I went for a walk, so technically I did not eat anything :( so my stomach started to hurt too much . "
rock pop dance classic hits now: I'm A Man by Spencer Davis Group on  
" yes its so good in doomsday dance... aaaaa
btw, not sure if u were aware but wu en (the voice of shun) "
NowPlaying on Prysm Dance Revival THE NIGHTCRAWLERS - Push The Feeling On - App: 
"what bts needs to showcase is the the medley performance from love yourself tour. sure, everybody knows they are go "
"Y to B: So, I guess we work on our lip sync
B to Y: Hey, I dont want to go home; you dont want to go home...th "
"alam mo ba kung bakit ang selosa ko? kasi feeling ko andali ko lang paltan tingnan mo , im not talented , dont know "
To avoid yesterdays dance
 im going to dance cover boy with luv today please support me uwu
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Lost City
 - Wiwek
 "
 Thanks again for the lap dance btw Haha
 I have attended my relative marriage today. And also dance on bts song . Enjoy alot
"Itsuka Odoritai Kimi no naka de
Shake it together time is on your side
Nothing can stop us,dance as you like,come  "
i just watched that video of hoseok giving a younger group dance tips and their reaction to him.....omg.. the respe 
@ beginning jazz dance 
"Now playing Bourgie, Bourgie (Extended Disco Version) by John Davis &amp; The Monster Orchestra music best hits rock po "
If my man is too uptight to dance with me like this he AINT IT 
 I know they do... but shaming girl dance choreo when boys mostly hump and thrust
her dance covers are always the best 
" Black Jesus 
ABDC-america's best dance crew
Power was killer
Titans
Good doctor"
cause i dance like an aristocrat
boys who can dance&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
I dont have to be drunk to dance I will dance no matter what bc I genuinely like to
Now playing ONE DANCE REMIX on  ListenLive only1djsmitty by Drake tedsmooth!
"I want to make the best out of what I have left. I want to travel, I want to experience shows, dance while my legs "
Straight guys and straight girls should NEVER have a dance off. I am not allow.
"i saw their first dance performance, but didnt realize they changed names till after they debuted  "
"SoCal dance listings, April 21-28: Che Malambo and more  "
"Stray Kids ""MIROH"" Dance Practice Video   "
Let's start learning Classical Dance this summer!!!..For more info visit... object referenc 
More like when I had to choreograph a dance to this for my camp kids 
"  Those girls are just t oo beautiful, the other day i was watching their dance documentary...they are really cool,"
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Mustang Sally by Andrew Strong on  
"Kylie Minogue - Word Is Out (1991)

 DANCE "
dance dance with me
" Sho bro, do a little dance too so that she understands that I don't give a flying pig and that my en "
"//.........imagine ISAC becoming sentient

Summons a small palm sized hologram above the watch itself

Hologram is of default dance"
In real life!! Im looking for a dance class now... for slow learners tho thats not Zumba. 
"Its  time bring your dancing shoes, or you jackin shoes or jumping shoes. Just come out and dance...an "
"prayer circle : 
                     
                        
                                 "
 Mek we dance by RDX. Play it at JustBubble lol
I heard that the number 1 demand of Palestinian terrorists of Gaza is to allow them to attend the Eurovision and da 
I think I troubled many more people's daughters before uni tbh. I was savage in the dance
"Cryin on the dance floor to Promises,  Promises by Naked Eyes"
"Listen to S.I.Y.A np on SoundCloud
 art
artist
beats
countrymusic
dance
diva
dj "
Somebody call 911 cause shorty fire burning on the dance floor
 Fokke Wulf howling for pair rental guy dance.
"waiting for  and other maxxam members to dance X1_MA 
.
.
Cr maxxam_saebom
 kimyoungwon  "
"during concerts, whenever camila does that guitar dance and harry spits out water to the songs beat i just... i lose it."
Score one for the dream team! This dance might go down in history!
"I just wanna dance and not give a fuck mood once have had a few drink and a few puffs that's it, I be on the dancef "
So wssu made that dumbass dance CANCELEDDJWBDMSNDDBH
"and miss, please learn proper dancing if youre gonna say this is a DANCE COVER if not i might pee my pants from la "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino You Can Leave Your Hat On by Joe Cocker on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Let There Be Love by Simple Minds on  
"My sister's boyfriend told me, that I'm that weird, that I can make living by that, if I combinate that with my dan "
Let's go baby and dance now Keep Up by KSI on  
come on dance break
She's letting a Jelly dance on her head....
Wild how you can lose 4 hours on the dance floor. Ive absolutely missed this.
"   Actually, they kill their own members a lot. Honor killings, disobedient wive "
"anyways that mabu and reo dance animation sequence in ep 2 was super super cool

man i love the animation in music in this"
"   I too vote for On the Radio. But there's one version of Last Dance, the si "
"Today's dance! BoyWithLove!  It's coming~
Love my best friends
BoyWithLuv 
BTSARMY 
 "
lmao this white boy talking about they dance to every song!! cus we keep hussling lmfaoo i like yeah bitch we do so 
pls let jennie dance to ktl
Me @ a mediocre bar in albany watching white ppl dance to old town road 
 I wanna dance with my girl
Who was your first crush?  My cousins best friends little brother. We would dance at church events together when 
"Mind = Blown
memes memesdaily Dance breakdance hiphop stage performance videos Dancer "
 She is by far one of my fav to play because no matter what Ill get someone to dance no matter what country I am in.
"The priceless moments that gave and still give me life. MBMS 2017 when a pillow became a bird and we flew together, "
 Wanku d nephew of zanku a common dance commonly danced by over happy people.. NNE u try pass me self
        
  Just dance to the electricity 
"Sing like no one is listening
Dance like no one is watching
Fart like no one cares AnimeBoston2019"
Last dance.
" If France counts then I'll add Lauriault &amp; Le Gac for Ice Dance. 
For men all my favourites were alrea "
"Beyonc is good, really good, but until she popularizes a dance technique, don't even think of comparing."
"How do you compare MJ with Beyonc? 

MJ was all over the world when there was no social media. The man created a m "
"Performing this evening Kathak solo in Mohanam National Dance Festival, Palakkad, Kerala organised by Satyanjali Ac "
 saturdayvibes babyshark dance my sexy british man hardylicious Tom Hardy VIDEO 
I couldnt even dance with him without a bitch asking to dance too 
Now playing Half A Minute by Matt Bianco music best hits rock pop dance on  
Off to Bacup today to see  Very happy memories of me &amp; my cousin Mark as lads carrying the g 
 both movies are about dance. I not sure about shall we dance since it appears first on my search list movies
it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes it goes guillotine - an interperetave dance.
Patiently waiting for someone to make a line dance for Beyonce before i let go before the Summer cookouts come  
Im at the point in my dance career that i feel like Im just not good enough. Like I see all these amazing dancers 
HOLY SHIT ILYA AND I USED TO DANCE ALL THOSE BLACKPINK RED VELVET DANCES ALL HKSKSKJ FUNNN AND LIKE STAYBACK EVERYD 
  and they dance too
 When u had to change your shirt while playing just dance from sweating to much
"  Cong leader's are like snakes who want everyone to dance on their tune's, every leader has "
"Lets Dance!
Its time to play  to continue GameChangers2019 supporting  
Song Reques "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB I Got My Eye On You by Nari &amp; Milani And Cristian Marchi Feat. Luciana on 
Why worry when you can Dance!! Get it now:  ghana afrobeats afrobeatsuk itunes trending gmasa
Bad Gyal MarieDTD -Dem Time Deh- 90s-2000Mix ~Everybody Dance Now~   
 siennas an absolute beast in the dance game
I ASKED SHANE TO DANCE WITH ME AT THE DANCE AND HE SAID YES IM-
Happiness &amp; Be Natural Dance Cover By Red Velours [Comeback Stage 071214] 
NP SHARE HEIMediaGroup   Beyonc - Dance For You 
I hope Jongdae becomes fucking big internationally. I know he ain't doing pop or dance concept and that shit alread 
Let's go baby and dance now Love Is Darkness by Sander Van Doorn on  
"Would you dance if I asked you to dance?
Or would you run and never look back?"
 SO UNTRUE. Ur just attempting to hypnotize your peeps; So they will dance on stage like chickens. 
PLAY THE DANCE a prankSHOPBASE  playthedance   
I love to dance whenever I can. But don't we all?
"and hear a drunk girl sing a long to whitney through the door, i wanna dance with somebody, and my feelings sink, "
You can find me on the dance floor 
"that part where kim lip sings ""slow dance"" in starlight... what if she sang marceline's slow dance instead?? i would DIE"
NHA THIS DANCE BREAK AFTER SOLIDER IN SHAKINGZJXJXJD
 I didn't eat yet I'm too busy practicing my solo part in Dance but I will soon. Love you 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Lady Marmelade by All Saints on  
"Now playing: Dance Floor by Klass BrotherHood [ft. Mel Waiters]  - Best in Shag, Beach &amp; Swi "
      Kerr is a conservative invest 
Did I dance on a table when firework played? Of course  
" Arkansas (Arkie) Woodchopper and his Square Dance Band et al.
 Mississippi Sawyer
  "
"IM THE NEW CANCER
NEVER LOOKED BETTER YOU CANT STAND ITTTTTTT
*epic instrumental*
*ryan and brendon do the cutest "
  Well. Will do anything to win myself a dance lesson 
" Give me some riddim and let me dance

You know. Etc."
"If you are going to dance with the devil, you might as well lead..."
"NewYork Weekend 
Music &gt;&gt; Li'Nard'S Many Moods (The Groove) | Music &gt;&gt; Late Night Dance Session: Bruce Harris ( "
 DANCE DIONYSUS WITH MY FRIEND  
The penguin below is good at dance battle.
homecoming has me searching for dance classes in makati sis i want the fantasy
"okay but joon has improved so much like
dance line watch out "
Alison Wonderland On Women in Dance/Electronic Music  musicnews 
I know many have said this but you truely stan/purple BTS by living your life by the inspiring messages in their so 
 Go back to sleep
" Ahahaha,,,, am joining you guys in the dance within five hours from now"
         
Im not gonna lie 978 can dance dancehall better than NY girls.
Alia Bhatt and Varun Dhawan dance to Lil Champ Swaranshs tunes
"All iz well! After a long wait, today video of 2IDIOTS is featuring Rooftop's dad, Seunghyub hyung. We tried FORTNI "
"Music is the sound track of your life.
.
Music Bollywood updated Games Quiz Dance installapp soundtrack "
Alison Wonderland On Women in Dance/Electronic Music  musicnews 
DANCE IS HER HIGHEST STAT!
Lets dance in style. Lets dance for a while. Heaven can wait were only watching the skies. Hoping for the best 
"Today's Dance YouTube Video Jax Jones, Martin Solveig &amp; Madison Beer's All Day and Night (Jax Jones &amp; Martin Sol "
Now playing  Dance With Somebody  (Instrum Remix) by Whitney Houston !
Finally able to dance again and ignore everyone. And in a str8  bar no less. Only took Two BlackBerry margarita's a 
Alexa play the humpty dance  i had to google what that was 
"This weekend will see four extremely varied sets of performances by artists that sing, dance, and mix music. "
"I wanna dance right now
Left side, just throw your hands up
I wanna dance right now
Right side

[STYLE feat. CLIFF EDGE / Lily Music]"
come to berlin and dance with georgie rae/moira/natasha lyonne from russian doll? 
Elvis makes me cry so its always amusing when someone is bopping to hound dog or something and Im there trying to 
Dancefest: Dance in Herefordshire and Worcestershire - Executive Producer 
 Did you Dance with her at least
"dance dance

Ah-oh-oh-oh ah-oh-oh LOOOOVE IT! 
as someone who had heard of a different track with the same title an "
 Alice when are you dropping this I need new music to dance to at 3 am
"My sweet was feeling under the weather,so I serenaded him with a BOYZNMOTION smash hit to lift his spirits. I even "
Freedom is blasting music at 1am and dance your ass off with your kid.  Hehe
I refuse to dance to that ONE Indian song they play at clubs because yt people decide theyll deign to dance to it. 
Dance to cheek to cheek
  I started seeing the signs when I could no longer recognize the music at the clurb. Nor did I 
"We act like that because hes the only one that sings, raps, writes, dance, paint, produce, direct, acts, clothing "
"Triple high note (again) + Deep voice + Falsettos on Dionysus. 

Hobi x Kookie x Jin subunit on Jamais Vu. 

Center "
Garth Brooks - The Dance (1990)
  You dance wrongly
 I just woke up but I'm having breakfast with my dance mates this morning. Have a wonderful day
NowPlaying Dj M - Dance Wit U on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
"It's Tonight !! April 20th Saturday Xsight events Blockbuster Bollywood Party 

No Limmits  Lounge &amp; Club with Cele "
So I understand the message behind Guava island but I am a bit confused as to why it underutilised Rihanna. It's a 
Deee-Lite - Groove Is in the Heart [Dance] via /r/Music 
 Legendary dance
 He's been known to dance a lot. Let's hope he chooses our country over his party.
 are you ever moving back to LA? I have so many dance videos I wanna make with u guys
  Now this is more likely be Sarah at her best. Do the dance according to the morons m 
I'm drunkkkk and I'm about to dance in my living room bitch I'm lit by myself 
Dis is meech song &amp; dis is how he dance lls 
Because comments are still disable on your vlog channel  you can dance AND sing so good. Like wow. You ar 
Had an amazing night coloring eggs and having a dance party with Josh and watching movies!! Eric cane home late but 
"Repost  congratulations brother 
...........
The time has arrived Admissions open .. Book your seat "
"mum watching tv seeing traditional dance in a batak village: kampungnya ucok bukan?

mum basically on everything no "
"Extroverting is hard work

But seeing your chorus teacher dance is worth it"
A glimpse from a new project Im working on. Shooting &amp; editing videos  about remarkable journeys of women from the 
Just a dance around Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch 
   ding ding ding! I have DEFINITELY seen Leli pull a flip line that along with other unneces 
  Be Patient Ok Tym Will Came Soon 2 Get Who Will  Dance With Your Spouse Ok
"  The song isnt even funny its just like listening to blood on the dance floor, I listen "
 Thomas Jack - Rivers (feat. Nico &amp; Vinz) Dance Music
Who want to go dance at the market tomorrow tn?
"The priceless moments that gave and still give me life. MBMS 2017 when a pillow became a bird and we flew together, "
"   Just dance! I volunteer as ceo of D.u.m.b.s.h.i.t. Inc. nah, chillin is great!"
". is back from her Coachella performances and she's giving you ""What You Need."" Tap in to the Dance Char "
   You dance is lame you know right
"This is winning all the Oscars. Also, is Donald Glover stealing my dance moves??  can confirm I've literall "
 BABY I LUV U!! i learned a bit more of everglows dance today!
 THINGS WE DO FOR A.C.E :) but i cant even dance lmao it better be a joke
I liked the dance break in Solo even more this time Jennie rocked it again tonight 
" J hope , if you are reading this , help me with dance,  pls"
  WHAT. I WOULD DIE.
" 5.40/207 &gt; 45/207 Skadi, Sexy Dance 45/185 (charm eff, incendio to self)

JOROK"
" Oh, what kind of dance?"
  does dance
he really cant dance for shit but hes super cute for trying &lt;3
MY DANCE WORLD AND BTS HAVE OFFICIALLY COLLIDED IM
yall ever just sit there and think about how yoongi was promised that he would be a producer and he wouldnt have 
"   I was shocked!! and scared bcoz that dance move is hard, a small mistake can hurt you "
Now playing Land Of Confusion by Genesis music best hits rock pop dance on  
I wanna go club and dance to some nuevos rebeldes 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby The Weekend by Chris Kaeser on 
"No-one panic. MONSTA_X Alligator reactions (MV, dance practice etc) are being randomly blocked due to the Japanese "
Im tryna dance sum norteas w Sumoneeeeee
"Watch OurPlanet to find out why Nature is so Lit !!

Blue Manakin's dancing ritual has provided me the answer to "
I FINALLY learned solos dance from beychella. I think I should drop an insta
  His Molly rock is sick. That's enough colour for his United Career. He has done the world some good with his dance.
KILLED THAT DANCE BREAK I LOVE JENNIE KIM BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"Let me see you dance
I love to watch you dance "
"  Lisa is pretty, can dance and has a nice stage presence, she stands out ALOT next them to the "
tangina jennie why'd u have to smile while you do that dance break
"Me at kid's dance between sets tapping away at my phone.
Some parent make ""smart phones are a plague"" comment.
Me: "
 Parkinson Dance u know ?!
 i say that in the shower everyday with a dance routine and everything
Our very own is DJing a fundraiser tomorrow! queer dance party 
I just wanna dance
after a few dance practices (its more darker in person and it hella stings but its going to all worth it ) 
"swords dance, ice punch. one hits delta rayquaza. jesus"
Oooohhh the crown on Jennies dance break in solo  BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"My bro came over while I was watching homecoming all hyped &amp; he's like naagtas wa shaydaamad, she truly snatched ev "
"JENNIE'S HAIR, JENNIE'S MAKEUP, JENNIE'S OUTFIT, JENNIE'S VOICE, JENNIE'S RAP, JENNIE'S DANCE, JENNIE'S SMILE, JENN "
 I had no idea  could dance like that.
a dance line  
my man can tap dance
fuck this dance break im-
rock pop dance classic hits now: Missing by Everything But The Girl on  
i literally dreamt that the twins made a video dating our best friends for a day with emma and olivia. and then a 
 Mom hoseok watching her children in their dance practice 
still shook that the this is how we do it line dance is only a corpus thing?? like I tried to start it in Austin 
"Hip thrusts? Body rolls? 

Today were turning the tables and having  showing  some "
Teeny girl dance naked 
When bend it comes on Kaiden gets crazy shes gonna love to dance just like me its too cute 
 i was pretty traumatized seeing u dance in that spiderman dress...
YES DANCE BREAK JENNIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
"Expressions
.
Artist : Peesapally Rajeev
.

kathakali performance performanceart dance music drama theatre "
" Not to beyonce abeg
Can he dance and sing at the same damn time while. Maintaining his notes... He can't..."
"Yeah Frat, the Fusion dance just set the whole thing off "
I hope the punishment won't be another dance cover ogjwh
 but do you have a drummer tho
"I'd love to see them dance to HOME, but I'm contented on DIONYSUS and BOY WITH LUV. I'd rather see them rest. "
"Im not a 49er fan, but I was gifted 2nd row end zone tickets to this game, the final dance at Candlestick. Still o "
cyber goth dance party
"SpecialShoutOut to my mentor,  for always pushing me to grow... growingcofidence @ VYB Dance "
or my hwad apparwntly and autocorrext doesnt exist on my phone idk but i csnt feel anyrh8ng and i th8nj i tipped th 
"This bitch is 20, cant dance like a pro but works at a strip club and on a bad night already made in 6 hours what "
 so the main concept of your wedding is step up- wait wrong. I mean Shall we dance?
i wanna listen to bob dylan drunk and dance in my living room
    And get him to do the dance!
BABY LOVES TO DANCE IN THE DARK CAUSE WHEN HES LOOKIN SHE FALLS APART 
"Download Amazing Belly Dance

Sexy_Belly_Dance Amazing_Belly_Dance "
im supposed to be doing my thesis bc im trying to submit everything on monday but im here watching every bts dance practice:(((
"idol school mini reunion: check!  it's been a while. i'm so glad to finally meet yubin eonnie, yoojung eonnie, yur "
 I have a dance practice today uwu 
   The first victim of the dance of democracy is always the poor alcoholic 
"Do you model or dance?  I want to be a model, just dk what to do and I used to dance. "
Think Ive broke my shoulder....becoming the holiday parks dance champion has come at a heavy price 
"People who can dance, are good in bed"
How do I.....casually........tell my boyfriend that our first dance at our wedding will be to the law and order SVU theme
"Dance videos coming way more often on this here Twitter
Choreo: CeCe Marie
Song: Chi Chi by  and "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Dance Across The Floor by Jimmy Bo Horne on  
    Ya that was nice. Whatever I will dance if he becomes the CM. 
  He's learning how to tap dance
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening "
 Did you watch Someone Great on Netflix? Because I just did and it made me want to dance the night away
"the shield dance  lol thanks for clipping that burgboi         

"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Omen &amp;40;Claptone Remix&amp;41;
 - Disclosure Ft. Sam Smith
 "
NowPlaying Sister Wisdom  - Dance With You Sister Wisdom 
 Maybe I m an old sch but I dont like the way the girls were dancing profanity and also jumping at you 
  Do you remember when we actually did have that dance battle and I won? Because I do
 Cats don't dance.
"I missed a lot of dance covera lately..including violeta,dalla dalla, and crown"
this is the final week of rehearsals for dance competition im so nERVOUS DHRVRVS
Enjoy &amp; Dance ! 
 Check out highlights of Carlos Perez. Left hander. Pitched well for the Expos. See the little dance he 
 imagine how many more subversive dance routines we'll have with universal free college.
How does dance make you feel like i can do anything its like im invincible nobody can take this art away from me
Dice's dance hall. Cuphead NintendoSwitch 
 Im not into BTS (not shocking) but those dudes can dance &amp; perform.
 Dance training for the race 
 I have an  dance audition today ...15 minutes leftbut I didnt prepare it...just want to cryfeel so nervous and sad
"My  songlist with big d*ck energy:

Dionysus
IDOL
Airplane pt.2
Outro: Tears
Mic drop
Come back home
Not to "
" Yeah, i Think its in our culture to have music and dance and theatre mixed together heavily idk why it "
I almost died trying to dance and sing to the entire MilleniumTour lmao
 -He laughed this one had a lively spirit it was refreshing. Once out on the dance floor he stepped up 
"Could you be the next worldchampion ? Auditions Saturday 4th May, email gndopress for more info "
  ur dance skills are amazing hehe and ur socks are so cute 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Brand New Heights (Aliwud Remix) by Franz on  
"Who wants to see JackEL Live at SATURDAZE?! Native to Edmonton, AB Canada, JackEL has been turning heads with his m "
 I got to have one of my favorite smoothies today  I also went to a hip hop class where the teacher talked 
" I will dance with my group on campus events today :"") give me strength please cause i'm not feeling well now &gt;~&lt; "
i somehow ended up looking at reviews of fake vaginas dildo-thingys while hala hala dance practice is playing in the background
" Going to my dance classes  have a nice day, guys "
*gets into an argument* yeah but can you dance like I can
Yo white people dance so wired to me 
Why arent we doing the Gangnam style dance to old town road?
"""The Butterfly's Dance ~New Year's Eve Wishes~"" starts now!

 
 "
Keri Hilson - Slow Dance
"Life isn't about waiting for the storm to pass, it's about learning to dance in the rain."
What I really mean when I ask a girl to dance at the club: 
" How are you? I made a part of my art homework, and i feel a little bit sad, i used to dance a lot but now "
" Today i practice dance for competition at school , and i am resting in my home . "
"Big boobs cam sex  Brittanylovehot: I am friendly cute blonde, i like dance, stripteese, chat,play with toys, enjoy "
 i did a lot but i was mainly loving you guys and hoping for a dionysus dance practice with u guys dressed as greek gods
" I'm finishing practicing my dance ,what about you? "
watching homecoming for the second time and the dance break in crazy right now and the color change still had me go 
It was such a lovely evening! It is truly inspiring to see humble maestros jumping in our Dance off project!  Tha 
"I MEAN I SAW HER BEFORE WHEN SHE DANCE THE ""MONEY"" OOMFGjsidhe8djwis"
"Cause rather than deal with the fallacy of this dry ass reality
I'd rather dance and romance your sweet ass in a wet dream"
"Repost  with get_repost

Come &amp; Join us for Awards Gala Dinner with Amazing performances by "
       Ufffffffffffffff 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Two Out Of Three by Meat Loaf on  
"""Whats meis favrioute dance?""
He points finger guns
""Now watch me whip. now watch me mei mei"""
Just gave a paper at interesting workshop on dance in Sri Lankan Tamil communities at the National Museum of Ethnology in Osaka
Watching white people dance is the funniest shit lol
 I have a dance contest
 I tried signing up for dance classes but didnt get accepted
" Just sleep and eat and practice some dance , watching you guy and then go to sleep "
 imma dance tho
Where the love in a lap dance 
"all seven members are part of dance line, thank you for coming to my ted talk"
 Time is the measurement of decay. It is the feel of our favorite song. It is the dance between A to 
"Imma say it again.. I love my exs family dude. Majority of them are coming to my dance recital tomorrow, that I wo "
Baby Shark  The Parent Jam | Phil Wright Choreography | Ig:  
 filming a boy with love dance cover
 Ms Warrens call belongs in Trumps Song and Dance Theatre. It is crude performance art and absolutel 
" I had dance rehearsals from morning till 12 am, i bet you guys worked twice as hard today"
If u aint gonna dance with me like this dont talk to me at. all. 
Looking on snapchat cudnt think nowt worse then going one Them daft dance tings like pure shite bunch hairy arse gadgys two stepping 
I warned my boy Ceeze I better not see him dressed like a basic instagram hoe doing some weird dance  
"Icee, Fabrice  Hip Hop Battle at StepXStepDance 2013 /  
hiphop dance battle strong winner dancer top"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Villain
 - Yellow Claw Ft. Valentina
 "
If he could hed prolly dance on the grave inside my head
" Back in the days we called this dance... ""imanyisa"" "
"S.I.S SIS    Anne   Sebin Gaeul    ABYG sayyes 
 "
who's going to let their abuela dance bachata with me
 Is it a kind of a dance?
I have so much hair and absolutely cannot dance
" When I woke up today, I saw that Persona became 1 in the UK. I was sooo happy I had a 4am dance party in "
Dance Thai porn tle girl 1 8 1  .xxxthaixxx 2 
" - Elinda - Dance With Me is now playing on MPG Radios.. 
Reflection Town - "
They went hard!!!                           J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy 
Currently wanting two drunk chicks dance with each other reminding me of the mating dance my fucking birds from environmental put together
" My dad has a little food dance, never known him not to do it. Celebration of food.."
"nowplaying Dance, Dance '2005' by Fall Out Boy |IOS:  | Android:  "
ok BoA's eyeliner is very heavy here so these two selcas aren't a good comparison but i always found them so alike 
 Kev. I have one rib broken from 2 months yet  I want to get back to my dance school!  Give me energy to overcome sadness 
Spaces still available - Dance for Adults With Learning Difficulties: A chance to explore dance and movement in a f 
Ever since Zedd played I Wanna Dance with Somebody I cant stop playing it in my car 
 Literally how I'd dance to attract guys if I ever went to the club. But go TeamHare for this 
rupaulsdragrace everyone knows  would run and dance and drag circles round what  been bring 
"Spectres, come to me! 
Dance together and echo 
the song of the righteous!"
" anyways, dionysus really slaps me that hard. i love dionysus so much! hoping for a dance practice"
"   My make-up is fabulous thank you! Also, wtf does that have to do with anything?! "
 Only if it's good than  it gets my damn this nasty dance 
 I am currently trying to learn the cheer dance for try outs :)) Ill try my best  Eat and sleep well bby love you 
he has great dance moves 
"They sing live, they dance, they interact with fans professionally, just like a global star BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
" If David could dance, so can you!"
 I had to work then had hula dance practice tonight!  and now its time for me to go to bed  and to do 
 Dance Boy With Luv and thinking about u :333
 Im going to my dance class  And miss Bangtan too ;-;
"Ladies if you trying to have sex on the dance floor, go home and have sex"
 Dance and learning
i never thought dance moms would make me ugly cry this much
  life is a dance routine and im in the ensemble baby
 I went to my friends dance show. They danced so well
" I was seeing your dance on idol and just one day,how about you"
Now playing Full Clip by Gang Starr music best hits rock pop dance on  
 I made the dance team I auditioned for and I studied jejekeks
 Dance music
 They are all still doing a victory dance. They think it exonerates him.
"Some dance to remember, some dance to forget"
 I was dancing with my dance group this morning. We almost won the 1st prize 
"If you weren't worried about anything what would you do besides eat, fuck, dance and sing?"
       You and your dan 
bruh I was so free last year omg I had time to choreograph contemporary for dusk till dawn and also a ballet item f 
 I Study and dance whith my friends  i love you 
 Yeah but with Dance Dance Revolution
" I'm trying to learn Boy with luv dance, but it's hard. I'll keep trying. "
" Watch flamenco videos, dude. Men dance flamenco in heels."
 Fr the dance show and tryouts need to hurry up
 he needs some of my dance lessons
"You ask me if I
Want to dance some more
I tell you that I do
You raise me up
Up to heights I never knew"
" Sending you GOOD VIBES and LOVE from the dance floor in Boston, USA!  "
 U gotta get creative when you dance around what you really wanna say
" Drinking a green soy latte at a cafe, waiting for dance class to start  Have a good weekend, guys!!"
 I'm about to sleep ;-; tomorrow I have a dance contest
I literally had a disco school dance and I asked for NASA by  and when they started playing it... it w 
" This is Fairytale vibes all over it.

*i was gonna say first dance but someone said it's a clapping of th "
 Im going to have a dance show tonight!!!
 I went to my usual dance classes and I hurt my ankle but I'm sure it's fine
" I was dancing
 (Boy with love dance cover)
and Im gonna post soon on IG "
" 
Today was a lazy day, so i tried to draw some stuff and seeing your dance practice because i love the "
 Interpretive dance renewable energy metaphors are a tough sell. God bless those dogged artists.
How am I supposed to dance at a bar with my man to TAYLOR SWIFT SHAKE IT OFF??????
" Wtch TV, See your twits, dance and doing videos."
 Im dance dionysus part jimin...  Im so love it thanks for this songgg....
 I was making choices about which song should I dance to at the competition and I just can't seem to choose one :-)
"Only I Can Change My Life, No One Can Do It Forme.
  style. .
.
.
.
active "
goodnight to jimin and ny dance line only 
 dance class 
"Tanya bhushan birthday special dedicated Dance video On our YouTube channel ...Link Hear 
 "
 I went to dance practice and tidied up my room hehe
"  Also motion control games, now I am just imagining him playing Just dance and I am crying, oh my lord"
 Going to dance studio) then some meetings! Have a good day
 dance party withcmy dogs
 Learning dance steps of Boy with love.. Can u help mee
"Pop music is cool but have you heard The-All American Rejects, All Time Low, Mayday Parade, Dance Gavin Dance, Bran "
"Autumn Town Three 5 haiku poem poetry poet 

By concrete pathway
Are past summer days- brown, dead
Leaves on ra "
 My dance group and I made our costumes ^^  I PURPLE YOU~
 Watched a girl from my school preform a dance from  Pentagon at the talent school
Just at the bar watching white dudes try to dance. Rhythm doesnt exist in this place.
 I went to dance practice and slept 
 I watched YouTube amd went to dance practice
 Well-- i was with my best friend today and we dance to Boy With Luv and other kpop groups ! What about you??
attending Party Like a Queen - A Disco Dance Party at The Van Buren 
Xander taught me how to epic Fortnite dance. Wanna see?
I need  Flames video like...20 minutes ago....doin the potty dance to watch it
"The majority of Labour MEPs candidates back a PeoplesVote

This includes:

Best for Britain boss Eloise Todd;
Mome "
Icant tell if this bitch actually thinks she can dance or is doing it as a joke  
 Piano class and dance class and stretching  Im so tired but its worth it 
 Just woke up and I have dance practice soon
 I practiced dance all day
 I dance for one hour to boy with luv
Ok so I've lost ~25 lbs in the past few months (literally only saying this to say my next point I do not want any a 
 I had dance practice and read some books today &lt;3 rest well jiminie! 
 On the way to dance class!
If you are dancing on the the dance floor and you look to your left and your right and there is a not a woman in si 
 I'm filming my dance video of boy with luv today :D
 This why I gotta get skinny cause I wanna dance so bad bro
" It makes your body dance better, makes your brain more witty and totally makes you more able to discuss "
Im still not over how that girl shouted BTS TAEKOOK and taes lil dance after o.m.g.
Ive had sales for the past three days. *happy dance*
" Haha no. I already know what kinda guy he is, so I always declined his offers to eat, dance or dates. I do like his voice though."
For my 16th birthday party my mom made me do a dance; i dont even remember the dance but I remember Alana taught me the little man.
PONYTAIL RAPPER AND DANCE MACHINE AT IT WITH THE BODY ROLL AGAIN BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
"Dropped by a bar with my roommate since they have a dance night before driving an hour home at 1 am

Didn't drink at all but lmao"
 i prefer a good scotch on the rocks. the ice mellows out the alcohol &amp; bit lets the different flavor 
  Oh a dance practice would be wonderful. This would be a great present for us. I of 
My sisters dance to marana mass at a programme yesterday!  Rajnified Petta100days   
 ohhhhhhI want to dance with somebody who tolerates meeeeee 
Am I doing the dance stopped at the light?? You bet I am 
 GOODNIGHT  i love you bffie and so does jinnie I hope you sleep well and you have the sweetest dreams &lt; 
Chichiquita Cha Cha Cha Remix / Zumba Fitness / Dance Fitness / Tony 
"I even equal to dance of wealth or could be an unwillingness to me, Miss Steeles was over, and danger."
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Mrs. Vandebilt by Paul McCartney &amp; Wings on 
taeyeon really went and did that dance 20 times around the city what a cute LOSER
"Ive watched this so many times that I basically know the choreo...a dance cover today!

 "
"FeelDog IG 
Thanks for coming to the workshop today. I hope everyone can enjoy dancing without getting hurt. Every "
I fr wanna learn how to dance cumbias 
kiss and make up is the cutest dance okay
 Jonese doing the default dance
the best to countin up by rico nasty sound like some lap dance by nerd damn wow
 Thanks sweet C~let's just dance throught the day bigest hugs ... 
Save the last dance is really my favorite movie
Beyoncs hella overrated. That album was literally a remake of old ass bbq songs your grandpa used to dance to and 
"Moonlight Dance Mahamantra (15/108)

I first heard this melody from my Godbrother Ekalavya Prabhu whom I believe go "
that my feet won't dance like it did with you
"You go girl  

 THIS! Meet the 96-year-old 'Dancing Nana' who still breaks it down on the dance floor! Her sig "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Hard
 - Jewelz &amp; Sparks
 "
 I feel like she did a few stereotypical Nikki dance moves because she was low key calling her out based on her lyrics but idk
My favorite ref in the game and also one hell of a dance partner  is doing the work tonight   MY GEARL DUDE!!!
My dad said Im about to make a hole  in my room if I keep practicing DDU DU DDU DU on Just Dance 
Holy crap!  was amazing live. What a great show in a tiny venue. Thank you for letting me dance with you 
"So you can have tea with R2-D2 while horseback riding, you must do a dance and row 3 km.."
"untilted, 2014 by g-dragon and last dance by bigbang "
So excited to welcome these ladies! Welcome to year 2! 
 Real shit bro this is how you get people to dance! This is quite a milestone if you ask me I think I ran 
 I dance cover.
Snake Dance trying TANGO 
"\\ This would legit be AEK:

Surprise attack from enemy on the base: *happens*

AEK: Eh? Well, at least it'll be fu "
He been doing Just Dance 2019. Get it lil man. This Black Pink song on that game is my fav. 
"55 days till the release of our new single Dancing On A Glass Floor 
.
newmusic rock pop alternative dance "
 teach me how to dance
"Org 13 as dance routines from Magic Mike XXL

Demyx - Candy Shop, but he immediately busts his ass on chocolate syr "
"I need a one dance, got a Hennessy in my hand."
 Fb babe
genealogyphotoaday my parents and my moms sister (Vern Lee-Means) and husband (Paul Oden)are dress-ed! They wer 
They look like theyre about to smash that shoulder dance 
"Hello, Do you speak English? In Russian it sounds like this: Ty govorish po angliski? Do you want to speak Russian? "
In San Luis for the night whiskey shots and cumbia music my phones gonna die so I'll actually have to dance tonight 
"SAVE THE DATEGOLDEN WEEK in JAPAN.
STEREO PRODUCTIONS JAPAN TOUR 2019 
CHUS+CEBALLOS new singleKOKORO 29th April "
I'm in Sacramento and bummed I'm not at a club! I want to dance!
112 - Dance With Me  TheHeavyWeight Dj Rasheed
I love dionysus's choreography but the lyrics were translated to dance with literal meanings. I wish their own chor 
 i just saw it that the one who choreographed dionysus dance is an 18 yrs old girl / dancer skskskks
  Snake Dance trying to TANGO...IF needed JANATA WATCH THE MATCH FOR 5  YEARS. Till then VOTE for 
"The Chris Thile &amp; Punch Brothers vibe is real, but that doesn't take away anything re: quality, feel, and groove fr "
 Michael was forced to Persue a career by his dad from the age of 5. He was a machine. Strip away her dan 
"Anniversary Celebration of my 
Dance Crew ""FTLG""
...........
PoolParty Swimming celebration Anniversary "
"Spoken word by Rima Kato (A + B)
Barrel organ by Old street musician in downtown (A)
Knock &amp; kick on the door by Be "
"ARMYS FOLLOW ME, IFBArmyfollowarmy "
   Because I was curious as to what your input would be. Hey I really d 
"LES TWINS, KING CHARLES and PRINCE JRON, Exhibition Battle | City Dance Onstage 2017 "
thinkin bout the time ten and jisung had that tap dance vlive : (
 Why does Trevor look better after 2 hours of Just Dance?
Pero thanks to my bf in Michoacn for teaching me how to dance 
i hate blood on the dance floor but id choose their songs over girl that you love in a heartbeat
DANCE LINE YEEESSSS 
BUT I DONT WANNA DANCE IF IM NOT DANCING WITH YOU
u know what would be amazing? having a bts song on a Just Dance disc with the choreo
 I dance like a wounded bear....
did he cum on toast feeding it to me and filming me? like i did fresh prince dance forced like beano has vid of me and lemon.
"  1. Is that a poster of u 
2. All these dance moves
3. What are u lookin at?
4. The dresse "
"day13: best dance cover

ofc where they from! they did the choreo themselves btw that's what happened when a group "
his dance partner 
"Dancers, AMAZING JOB at Dance Show!! I am so proud of everyone and how you really went for it...rest up, see you on Monday :)"
Time to dance ! Byeeee
SO I'LL NEVER GONNA DANCE AGAIN THE WAY I DANCED WITH YOU OOOHHH
So excited for the new Madonna album...but this hands down is still my favorite performance of hers EVER! I don't t 
 Its really sad. some people won't do it cause dancing is considered as 'buka aurat' :( bih i just wanna dance
Check out !concert (DAY 7) Dance with Dragons 
My dumb ass just realized that my fav hit the stage dance had feeldog in it idk why I never noticed it was him 
the boys r rly out here making armys do the most for fanchants as if i at most have mediocre singing &amp; dance abilit 
 Congratulations! I'm doing a dance 
  Dance tiny boy dance.
  More mature audiences now more aware also...my son in college preferred this one n badl 
NowPlaying Beautiful Lady Dance by  listen at  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Hidden Sound &amp;40;This beat is got me&amp;41;
 - Firebeatz &amp; JoeySuki Ft. Max C
 "
I promise you I dont want to hear about a wedding ever again unless Im getting an invite and am allowed to put to 
Im finna hire my own personal bodyguard when perform on stage. A lot of you niggas wanna touch on me &amp; dance think 
" 24 hours online, playing the best releases on the planet, connecting you anywhere in the planet to the best of p "
The Chris Brown niggas tried to challenge me to a dance battle
"I really love walking through the city when it is this early, nobody is around the streets and I can dance while li "
"With Ur Great Support Dance Mashup Reached 25K+ Views in just 24Hours
 PuneethRajkumarDanceMashup Part-1 "
"No Billy, I haven't done that dance since my wife died"
"6 photo one day answer  share 
youtube
dance
music
BreakingNews
BREAKING
YouTuber Mikh "
"I see Twitter and the hate I see. Love to see people not be grateful about things. Not all, You know who you are \m "
         
"Come on...
Everybody say, Namo Namo Venkatesa...

Dance along with us to this fast beat song from NamoVenkatesa "
"ASUNA - Kumo Lines

A: Kondensstreifen
B: Cloud River Seen From The Window
bonus track: How To Fog Dance

Written a "
" I know! Cutest, happy cows!! If I ever get my own version I'll let you know and post my after-brush happy dance."
 and downs it.- You ready to dance?
when she danceshe dance 4 dollas
that whistle skip dance move was made for jisoo
  HAPPY DANCE
" Blu-rayLUNATIC LIVE 2018 ver BLUE &amp; RED




A Blu-ray releas "
i have been in florida for two years almost and have only been to two spanish parties. like is tragic. like i just 
The dance in bewitched is so fucking good!!!
"watching janu university life photos and videos
he is a good dancer as well.
Mujhay aik step bhi dance ka nai ata.
"
"  She dance
She prance
Most importantly
She steals hearts with a glance XD"
genuinely dont know how people survive if they dont dance to whitney and cher once a week
"""Who's in charge of dance moves? Ooo bet"" "
I found this on fixrewards 
"Hey Guys!!  I uploaded our ""Pauwi Nako Dance Cover"" on my yt channel  Check it out if u haven't seen it yet 

"
"Alarming, boom, boom! Walla, walla, dance, dance, Charming!"
CAN I HAVE THIS DANCE AGORA
I will make your fucking corpse dance
dakishimeteyaru dance is so legit
"I listen to the whole album everyday...as i  dance in the bathroom and dramatically sing FakeSmile 

BloodLine to "
Dance Break! Cannot with us!Love you both    131method fitfam Thank you so much f 
"Hiiiii, Ill be dancing tomorrow at 5 PM. Come by and watch me and other AMAZING dancers... DANCE! 5 PM SPEC  Boise State Student Union! "
"I can dance. 
Give me some room.. put some Cumbias on and Ill show off my mf dance moves"
Boundless_Dance Film enjoybeauty 
 Doesn't really count...but I got a private dance from a chick with one...and tbh maybe it was the 
Introducing my friends wannabe Dramebaaz and Telugu band master  ...stop ruining the chances of 
    After that I will dance 
WINTER DANCE - DYNAMITE RAVE [DJ Command Remix] - Mayumi Morinaga remixed by Prim
"My niece is watching  Shake It Off and trying to copy the dance moves, safe to say she will be exha "
Let's go baby and dance now Greece 2000 by Those Usual Suspects on 
Aerial friend was telling me about how when they were kids they were very poor and lived in a village and had no ac 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Let Me Entertain You by Robbie Williams on  
"Worse than ""Spirit of Mumbai"" is the cliche ""Dance of Democracy"". Specially when translated into Bengali."
Friday night..keep dancing!! One of my favorite songs and a great dance video by Jake and JoJo to highlight it!!  
"Can you hear the violence?
Megaphone to my chest
Broadcast the boom boom boom boom
And make 'em all dance to it"
You blink in Joburgs CBD and they fuck you over
i'd dance with them  
Throwback my cuckoo dance  what do you think of my cuckoo dance 
A better dance for wedding! 
stay the only old song we WONT dance to
"Join us on Saturday  CHRISTIAN COUNTRY &amp; SWING this Saturday, April 20 from 6:30-11:00PM. Don't miss free dance le "
all that dance moves and lisas bangs STAY in place. i aspire to reach that level of stability in life BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
"Challenge me to a dance off in El Caballo Dorado, I DARE you"
Wish I had a shorty to dance some bachata with
This me trynna teach my non Hondurans how to dance punta haha 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino The Dance by Garth Brooks on  
 time to dance
"Trees and ornaments
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 This must be line 3"
"Come on, let's dance!"
d4 dance break &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
 Suited  Dance Mix  it's toooooo much
PPAP Dance! Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch 
" Beyonce has had 3 dance crazes from music videos (crazy in love, Formation, single ladies), Michael only had thriller"
"""I can't dance without Lisa"" - Jennie 
"
" Excuse me but Johnny's has existed in japan shobiz for almost 50 yrs 
Btw Produce 101 only do sing &amp; "
 Yes but I think this last dance brought rain!!
"eiei played in the hotpot place

fcc: what the hell
xg: why is my body starting to dance, whats happening?

yzj: f "
" Dance you can'or 
Mtchew
0"
i need my family to throw a party so i can get all dressed up and dance to banda
Vilhelmo the olive non-unionised dance teacher (private tuition)
" gemini venus, cancer moon, cancer mercury and this is a cringey answer but never be the same by camila c "
who the fuck bitches in the 90's telling asereje are the dance for calling the satan and the devil? i just wanna talk
It starts out empty....  Dance night 1 
 Not sure yet. Trying to retrofit the rotisserie over the fire pit so we can dance around in goat leg 
NowPlaying Luke Wheeler Ft. Cad'don - That's Right on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
my fav thing about going to bars at home is seeing a bunch of yee yees country boys trying to dance to Mo Bamba
Never felt older than I did at the emo dance night thing I went to tonight smh
NowPlaying Sharon Lia Band - Forevermore (Dance Version) on     
omg imagine the crowd if they decided to perform their dance cover of sixteen shots at coachella or partition or ev 
Pointe and Shoot: Discussing Dance Photography with Kike Calvo  via 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Let Me Entertain You by Robbie Williams on  
Halloween Michael Jackson Skeleton Men T-shirt Funny Humour shirt Moonwa  
Had the pleasure of seeing  Live Tour tonight in DC and it was breathtaking. Photo by  4/19/19 
So...we did this workshop thing at airfitdenver...she called it a dance but i think I mostly just achieved not fall 
Some still photos from the wings at tonight's Dance Show! @ Katella High School 
All these Ghana bloggers you guys should stop trending junior death with  (SHOWBOY) name... You gotta sto 
if we dont get a dionysus dance practice whats the point
"like when i went there when i was 8, i was like I WANNA LIVE HERE BC DISNEYLAND AND UNIVERAL STUDIOS AND THE EDGE "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Soldier
 - Sidney Samson &amp; Gwise
 "
"Rejuvenated !



instagram instagood insta tiktok football food music dance malayalam easter "
"&gt;&gt;

Stop stop it Dance practice 2
(crazy boyfriend ver.)

  

. "
 How much more if  int fans dont sleep on them but nothing new about int fans they love and amazed on the d 
anyway fuck everyone at barricade who didnt fucking dance especially the dude who had his head down and covered his 
Apink - Nonono sexy ver. + Mr. Chu dance cover by Awhite 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby The Black Pearl by Scotty on  
Im a sucker for guys that know how to dance 
this dude is the CAO of the alvin ailey dance company of KC and I thought that meant Chief Alvin
 Still not hearing when Im getting that dance
Im tryna dance already
Yall ever do a little dance when you take a bite of some good food?
Wow. This spot was amazing. Great dinner and a show. Check my story for  and my first experience wit 
  I can picture you doing that dance lol.
 Shall  we dance
"Light a candle, see candle glow, watch candle dance with tlight holders and lanterns sourced best AT MAVENS' plan "
Much ado about the song and dance by Agrat and Adhrit! 
 Correct name should be Python Dance Institute. The certificate is now USELESS
" I shamelessly stole that idea from a proStrimmer that I watch a lot! You should check him out, but "
"SuperExclusive
Kartik and Naira's romantic dance in masquerade party  in  YehRishtaKyaKehlataHai "
 When Sid walked out on the dance floor.
im still so mad we havent gotten the BDS dance practice of markno 
The Dance ka Kal and their Gurus will surprise you with their new dance routines. Catch all the excitement this Sat 
         
  bitxh i would like to be at the fuckin dance party yall are currently having
Now Playing:  I Wanna Dance - Kat Mandu  Listen Live:  
" Ooooo, no Shall we Dance, Meet me in St Louis or Singing in the rain?"
 Most policemen are dacoits in uniform. Pay them and they will dance to any tune .. Bhangra to Bharatanatyam.
Clace is going to dance for the first time. Even if it's dark Clary with Jace we all know she still loves him so it 
If you stumble make it part of the dance _
 It all began on a cold Hobbs night on the black and white checkered dance floor when drunk Carlos d 
"Sienna Lalau, 18 yrs old, choreograph DIONYSUS.  I watched her dance videos and she's lit  No doubt why Dionysus "
"Life is not about waiting for the storm to pass ,it's about learning to dance in the rain"
when y'all ask me for a dance cover 
DJing for the first time in months tomorrow. Not expecting anything except to just have a little fun and make the people dance.
"Me: imma go to a party

*goes to party and dances*

People there: yo! You were killing it!

Me: ...all I did was da "
I realised i have a lot of friends who like to dance? And cousins too 
Now playing Let's Dance (Original Mix) by Alexander Hristov!
" Im still not impressed by today artists. They all sing the same shit, do the same dance, dress the same "
Let me tell yall something! These two couples can (and do) out dance all the younger couples every single time we 
They wont tell me you cant or you can. I will do whatever I want in there and they will not say anything to 
"i love attending jess and norlele's choir practices the dynamic is so different from the dance team,,, and it's fun "
"Jennifer Lopez feat. Pitbull - Dance Again

"
"GUYS TODAY AT THE JJBA PHOTOSHOOT SOMEONE REQUESTED THE TORTURE DANCE BUT NONE OF THE MISTAS, NARANCIAS, OR FUGOS T "
 Its not by age ooo my dear so calm down when our time for marriage comes u will come and dance
why cant the dance studio be closed today  I need a break 
Awww... Allison and Luthers dance in the park has my heart all swollen.
"First of all, act up &amp; doing my dance are the top two songs I play as Im getting ready."
ChrisBrown Inspires Dancers Around The World As He Makes The PalaisRoyal In Paris His Dance Floor In BackToLove 
"MY UNCLE DIED TODAY - me, yelling at my friends that I want to go to a bar that I can get too drunk at and dance"
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar. Hubby going for Battle wanted a Momento. Newly married wife sen 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Creep by Radiohead on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Don't Leave Me This Way by Thelma Houston on  
I just did an advanced search for 'dance' on my own acc and god am I crying
" The captain walked into the bar with his usual vibrating dance style,we al switched to his drink c "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Boggle &amp;40;Sunnery James x Ryan Marciano Edit&amp;41;
 - Michael Mendonza
 "
"Come Fairies, take me out of this dull world, for I would ride with you upon the wind and dance upon the mountains "
She said yes! :) cant wait to dance this beautiful girl around the floor again! 
 Hell yes! Casey you rule. I hope everyone had a wonderful time at the dance!
Aye about to dance all lit rn!!
Does anyone want to slow dance w me or    na?
 Dude thank you so much my day is literally made I am crying while doing some epic fortnite dance moves
 Yesterday you definitely saw me cheering for Akaneko to dance right?  I don't have virtual reality glasses 
 bringing the dance floor to life! @ Axelrad 
" [ flash flash
     I see the lights dance

It's tight around my hips and thighs 

    Stare at me with just fi "
"""I hope there are days when your coffee taste like magic, your playlist makes you dance, strangers make you smile, "
stars dance obviamente 
"Unexpected shift in the night: we're going from a club to a bar. And right when ""I Wanna Dance with Somebody"" comes "
X-Tasy - Indian Summer (Dance Mix)  via 
"You realize most of the whites who go out in Uganda dono how to dance?
Guys are always dancing off beats, we even d "
 Make jokes and dance like you haha
forever young dance break.. chefs kiss
"during the sexy dance challenge seonghwa picked hongjoong to go next and said ""he's our leader, our leader!!!"" and "
 Wanna have a dance battle
From Dance Festival to cafeconleche and now its an end  memories 
Just requested Last Dance anticipating this will be my swan song as I exit this extremely heterosexual bar later to 
Drowning out my demons with My Chemical Romance like I should have done in middle school but was an uneducated swin 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Applause by Lady Gaga on  
  &amp; piples this babys happy dance is too good.
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Genie In A Bottle by Christina Aguilera on  
 I was surprised when I transferred and pointe wasnt required here. The tap shoes I got are profess 
NEWS: Dance Music won R1  Handicap on Easter Saturday at AscotGoodTimes   
Lose Yourself To Dance - Daft Punk Feat. Pharrell Williams-Random Access Memories
crazy how one dance changed everything
 Can you Dance ?
My brother FaceTimed me at 1:20am to clear up the dance moves to Were All In This Together from High School Musical. My brother is 23.
"Used Ballet Folklorico Danza Shoes girls black size 2 coupons  Promotions $17.95. Best deals Clothing, Shoes &amp; Ac "
Their vocals and dance are always on point omg Blackpink is slaying the Coachella BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Let Your Love Flow by The Bellamy Brothers on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Orinoco Flow by Enya on  
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar. Hubby going for Battle wanted a Momento. Newly married wife sen 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Influencer
 - Rob Black Ft. Big2 &amp; Stepherd
 "
No Miles you can't go to bed until you get the PONPONPON dance down perfectly!
"""Socket"", from Dance Noise, the 2nd Neurogami album  WeekendRock"
"baepsae dance practice video 3:13-3:14 

the meme has been put to good use, i see "
 I dance salsa.
WATCH: Dance Music won R1  Handicap on Easter Saturday at AscotGoodTimes   
Currently Playing is Upfront Feat. Jamal - Alone Dance 
"""Dance is a delicate balance between perfection and beauty."""
     Nice dance 
Question of the day: why i choose to dance??
"Dont be impressed by me, I learned this on just dance -Brooke"
   Even for non-debut Johnnys Jr their schedules are so pack. Not only dance 
i will give up everything to sing and dance with the hoebusters please 
FOREVER YOUNGS DANCE BREAK PLEASEEE I WOULD DIE TO SEE THAT IN PERSON
Pussy clean but she dance dirty
"NaijaXtreme Radio Now playing Dance Instructional by MC Galaxy mcgalaxyMCG!
LISTEN HERE  {"
"Namjoon called our members to eat eat and after a fun breakfast we practice our dance.
""Im tired. I wanna sleep"" yo "
" My mom used to come home to me and my brother DRENCHED in sweat, playing just dance in the living room. T "
"are you sub human missing link fucks gonna keep doing this horse shit song and dance for eternity
sometimes i wonder "
"I dont understand how can they dance and sing at the same time nonstop??? 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2"
spotlight relay dance plz m2
 I mean its just obvious the song isnt a serious song. Theyres always been that guy in hip. Vanilla 
"Putting the 'dependent' in 'independent' judiciary.
Dance, puppet. "
" Convince me why I shouldnt use my Dance.

&gt;Oh god???"
With all these Chris Brown stans go going crazy just a reminder that yea he can dance but more importantly he did t 
i have a dance performance next month and we havent practiced at all  love that for us
 hey bro want to send my love! Your shout out for the autism dance brought Casey to kick it and help out 
In a club with people who cant dance 
Let's D to Dance
 it was so irritating to look at !! actually forgot some ppl cant dance
"  The cake is fucking burnt, whilst we dance around wondering why everything is catching fire..."
Just Dance - Lady Gaga (feat. Colby O'Donis) nowplaying
   step superrrr no problem with dance 
"  Yeah...because it was the FBI, DNC &amp; Hillary campaign that colluded. Collusion &amp; consp "
Dance party by myself while Im getting ready for work TheWoodATL 
Now playing Dr. Beat by Miami Sound Machine music best hits rock pop dance on  
"1,2,3 funky cuz, smell the sky. Start to sing and dance ""Oh, hey now!"""
"Hannah and Is friendship basically consists of dance practice, giving her rides, us getting grounded by Sam, and u "
    It's called 'We Dance' from the YouTube audio library.
I JUST WANNA WANNA WANNA I REALLY WANNA WANNA WANNA JUST DANCE
jinsung has no lacking areas bro he's cute. he can sing. he can dance. he's FUNNY.
 could we practice this dance and do it every time we work together?  
Bri doing the buss down dance  
"*spins wheel* Uhhhh Axel *pulls a slip out of a hat* loves to dance *rolls dice* tooooo. hatsune miku remixes. dang, guess so."
Same way Cleveland people feel about the Qmoney dance but we should all know where this is going  
"WE'RE LIVE!! AND IT'S HAPPENING!!
Our very first sub-a-thon!!! Come see what we have in store today!! EEEEEEEEEEP!! "
0630 my dj vu has dj vu. No sleep. So I gloved up and had a little dance with the bag. Hoyed some kettles about 
SATURDAY - It's Easter weekend and we would love to see you there!  
  Hope exists because at least there are some people preferring it rather than watchin 
 Is that spidy dance considered part of torture routine 
 First dance para el Matri NOTED
A Dark Oklahoma! Brings Barefoot Modern Dance toBroadway 
Shuffle dance
White ppl b really learning their dance moves from tik tok
"13) BIGGEST turn on is definitely a guy who loves God with all his heart, is family-oriented, and respects women. I "
like...i already know im gonna dance to this everyday 
"When you get dipped on the dance floor and your partner doesn't catch you, it's stuck in your rotation of anxiety p "
 What club? I want to see you dance?!
 Ikrrr im like why u dance like that like and why u posted it aigoooo
"When I dance with nature I am complete,we connect as one in perfect harmony.Indii Bey "
"Yes, the climate protesters disrupting the streets are annoying.

Yes, they dance like 1970's Open University lectu "
"POWER DANCE FULL TANK

 "
"Dance moves like Slaber
 "
"I put a lot of hard work, sweat, and tears into this 6 song ep. Im so proud of this shit ! Itll mean the world to "
"Look bud I know you've got torn jeans and you just found out who Morrissey is, but your faded pink sweater and whac "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Looking Good &amp;40;radio edit&amp;41; 
 - Gregor Salto Ft. Red
 "
 They came in for the last hour of my set and immediately hit the dance floor 
    I watch this programme last night and was drawn in by a style of 
I was so sad I missed  set but I just saw him dance during  set and that was lit as f 
Total Eclipse of the Heart --(dance mix)  via 
((still having mental breakdown bcs my favorite dance crew x my favorite boygroup collab))
Ass so phat I need a lap dance   FreakyFriday TheHouseNightclub 
  well i watched her dance videos with matt stefanina.. and she is killing it!! no doubt d 
"""You dance like a white girl "".... 
As if this will stop me from doing the entire 7/11 choreo!!!... "
Who was your first crush?  He was a member of the idol group i was in. He was beautiful. He could dance like smoke 
Dance with me.
"195.
He only responded to questions in monosyllable answers and a little too defensively at that.

He tripped a lot "
HADI RANI married a Rajput Chief of Salumbar Mewar. Hubby going for Battle wanted a Momento. Newly married wife sen 
Deee-Lite - Groove Is in the Heart [Dance] 
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listenin "
Let's go baby and dance now Thrill Me by Ann Nesby on  
You can show me how to slow dance to something and I can give you chills harmonizing to Otis
TurnItUp Loud for Kygo feat. Justin Jesso - Stargazing Pop Dance House  
"wait so u dress nice, sing, dance, edit dope videos, and produce songs boy are u psychopath or 411 like"
vm literally are the best skaters in the history of ice dance and their choreo nowadays is slower than actual molas 
"New Entry  

ItalianWeeklyPlaylist IWP playlist playlistitaly club disco "
Makes me just wanna chola dance tbh 
Why i think i dance better than her? I mean the dance should be powerful and more energy but the way she dance omoo 
  You'll smash it  and I want to see a dance at the end 
The Dance of Dimitrios 
y'all really think adele's gonna drop the saddest album for her next project... watch her finish an album full of b 
aaahhh i finished boy with luv! the dance is so fun 
"Montreal 1945: ""All the talk in the crowd was of a brilliant local pianist and as we played, suddenly, between numb "
 Not quite the same. But you got your dance from me.
"What do you have to say about the network in Nigeria?
africa music video duncanmighty baddosneh "
smth about always you is just... wow astro wow and the dance line vid oh wow
" Eh that you think the same things like me,Abeer-chan?
I also think Yuki are cutest member in Ctq..
Ma "
"  what -exactly - do u Anticipate 'The Russians' will 'DO' to USA 
- when they TAKE USA?
 FORCE US "
Death Of A Strawberry by Dance Gavin Dance  NowPlaying
The 1975 Coachella weekend 2 performance is peak matty dance moves tho
" Listen, we can dance around the fact that we've both eaten a bag of chips for dinner before, but let' "
  I said whats old ends of dance this already
"
 
Dance Dance Dance
You can do it?
I can "
Learn to dance Pachanga with our App.  dance salsa
 You're going down Comey!!!! **happy dance**** Guantanamo here you come!!!!!
I dont get modern dance
Happy early birthday to me!!!!! I was already super excited to finally have the honor to hear  perform 
 So my feeling is correct :( during encore he cant even dance while singing :(
I really want to be more cognizant of how flippant I am when I talk about white women. Mainly because the ones I kn 
DJ life with this awesome guy Gianluca Vacchi! dj life miamibeach southbeach goodlife weekend night music 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Happy by Leona Lewis on  
 Like I will pay you in real life money just for a simple followback big fan here I will even do the fortn 
Lhhhhh cant take  nowhere! Shes currently trying to start a dance battle in the middle of the dance floor 
" Dance to the beat of the 808...
Well this looks like a blob I just ate.
So everybody, just except your fate."
U can always tell the techno kids trying to dance
 OMG as a celebration Ill dance in my room with you ^^
So much pollen wet wood is a dance floor
"SOMEONE DANCED ALL NIGHT IN MY SCHOOL 

Cries...

I missed my opportunity to do the Viet fan dance and watch that"
"Dont say you not worthy enough. Rome wasnt built in one day!!!
Link on my Bio April 20th africa music video "
 aku tak sangka this type of dance really exist
 Yall are probably blasting it in a field and doing a line dance right now yeehaw
"  I can never get over how even in difficult dance moves like this, Jimin always maintains his bea "
 El Tejano is too chill :p Im tryna dance or have that type of vibe
Shall we dance? My Honey [Masquarade]
"Please Join, Like, Share and Follow the Official DJ-FM 87.6FM Dance Radio Sydney . page 

DJ-FM No 1 Dance "
    lOLLL you doing that damn dance in the shop
HOW TO DANCE: WITH CHANGMIN 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : In My Arms
 - Ferreck Dawn Ft. Robosonic &amp; Nikki Ambers
 "
"3 sessions at Students of Color Conference 2day, followed by SunKings pro basketball game. Ran stairs at half-time "
make a bts dance game and i will never be fat again
"NowPlaying:  9 Ways To Sunday - Dance For Me - 9 Ways To Sunday - requests at 
 Buy song "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby A Deeper Love (Paul &amp; Luke Remix Edit) by We Love 90 Vs Paul &amp; Luke o 
" ....

&gt;VERY TEMPTED TO USE THE DANCE-

How many mags do you want???"
"Every time I watch Beyonc perform, I always think back to when TLC said all she does is flip her hair and cant dance. The haterade"
 He got sexier through the power of dance
"with the devil, you can no longer dance"
Im so mad rn i wanna be a dancer and i thought I finna do something with my life until it says u have to be a BOY a 
  love the Bananarama dance Stephen  I SO need to see them live. Are they touring? How did t 
I want to dance but the lighting at this party is not mood appropriate 
"Do anything for clout! 
That lap dance Offset getting from his wife, DAMN!"
"...130 am driving home like...

Last Dance by Covenant
"
" Im writing, maybe a mixtape I need a lap dance to this... "
 Bards are my jam. My Timbers Clan of Rock Gnomes from Mossy Oaks all do a jimmy-jam dance before engag 
Someone I really adore is eunji from apink!! I first saw her on variety shows as a smoller kid and the thing I noti 
COME ON LET'S DANCE LIKE IT'S YESTERDAY
Im feeling very Dance Gavin Dance right now
Get your EDM swag on and recharge yourself this Saturday at EDM Recharge! Dance to the magical beats of EDM as our 
SaturdayJamzWithDjLee on  with  DjLeeInDaMix UnstoppableDjLee NowPlayingOnStarFm - 
 Anybody got a Galaxy S10? im tryna get that iKonik skin &amp; dance
On the lowkey bachata is my shit to dance  
"I'm me 100% weird af. I sing and dance and act a fool and I dont care about others perspective
 Being organic is th "
Rehearsal time practicing hard before the final presentation of Kalakhetram for the program of Kolkata Retina Debat 
"trust me btob can dance
(Weekly Idol EP.261) BTOB 'WOW' 2X faster version  via "
 Like actually bai im not drinking tonight but Ill come dance 
In case anyone was wondering Ive been having solo dance rehearsals for my word tour coming 2022
no artist should ever have to sit there and BEG people to dance or enjoy the show... why pay all of that money to b 
  Pouty Pop ELLISH EW. Solo Middle Class Pop Hm. Sex drugs rockn roll is a retro self centred yawn 
i really want to learn how to dance but 
"Motion, the Studio is hosting wonderful Summer Camps! Get moving and sign up soon ! CARROLLTON Dance letsdance "
"Okaaaaaaay, Dance Team. We see you!  "
" Lol google whatever all time dance craze list you want, but single ladies isnt ranking higher tha "
Only the top franchises could see some sort of pricing power come back. Rest will dance to the tune of OYO/MMT in n 
   I've listened to most of bts songs even the B sides &amp; yes bts is good but THERE IS NO 
You can dance? Lets see 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Ma Baker by Boney M. on  
At the club in Montreal. Yall ever played Grand Theft Auto and went into a club? Generic dance with techno music. We finna get active
" Hey Hobi, I just want you to know that I am really happy with your dance, smiles and manners. You are one "
before and after two hours straight of just dance on stream 
for sure just sweat all the alcohol out of me mocking this man dance all night 
" By the way, very nice edit even with 12 year old dance of NTR. Appreciate the effort..
Latest steps of "
if you are a male who is a child of God has good dance moves likes basketball can rap every word to bust a move is 
 learn the dance routineeee
 Ex-CUSE ME. We will. 2nd weekend in May Im all yours and the dance floor. And itll be to commemorate o 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Pull Up To Your Town
 - Beganie Ft. Eauxby
 "
namjoon calling ashley a tiny bird because she was nervous to dance))):)))
"Theres a dance for every Congolese song, if you havent noticed

Fabregas- Zigida "
  Add dance to this and bring troye onstage to sing it with you for the first time
Thanos cant do any dance that involves a snap. How sad bruh
"Dance Music was a strong winner today after a confident ride by  - Chloe rides Valour Road, Settlers Cr "
"Trans person:
Cis: If you dont stop X, Ill keep deadnaming you in public. And get defensive when you get pissed o "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Virtual Insanity by Jamiroquai on  
Life is not about waiting for the storms to pass...it's about learning how to dance in the rain!
MHS Dance Show 2019 //  Such a great performance by dance team and Mrs. Haukom 
"Namjoon is getting more and more comfortable performing!! 
That means he won't just be killing us with his dance mo "
"LET ME DANCE WITH YOU [JENLISA]

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
 Ok tbh my first kiss was actually when I was 4 in preschool. My boy bff and I were having a play date a 
"Me: *comes home drunk*
Me 10 seconds later: *riles up the dogs and proceeds to have a dance party with them in the middle of the kitchen*"
"going to the beach
going to a fancy hotel
eating loca food
lots of shopping
going to parties just to dance 
taking lots of photos"
 The dance sealed the seasonings bro
"Two types of us who cant dance is like these two crackheads lol 

2IDIOTS NFlying fortnitedancedchallenge "
radio announce for polka dance music 1
We caught the Torres Strait Island group just after Dallas Woods and Baker Boy. I love watching and listening to To 
 Idiot. Thats how concerts have always been. The younger kids dance around not caring if other fans (olde 
It's quite early but a year ago today we lost one of the brightest artists. We knew him as  and he has crea 
I think my favorite high thing to do is dance really hard in the mirror
dance cover  nct 
I just spent my Friday night looking up YouTube videos on how to line dance and eating chips and salsa... this is my best life
" BTS Jimin, Daniel and Woojin participated (respectively) in a dance competition in Busan  2011 Busan City Kids "
"WorkParty ya disponible en:

Spotify: 
Apple Music:  
Google "
Name one Michael Jackson dance moves that you cannot do
         almo 
" Watsky,3OH3, All Time Low, Dance Gavin Dance,Panic At The Disco and a bunch of other stuff that everyon "
 we were at barricade but I decided I wanted to dance and go wild so I broke off from my friends and wa 
happy birthday to one of my favorite humans on the planet!! I love and miss you so much with our dance sessions and 
she posted abt her mom making her lose weight or shell take her out of dance and yearbook and i felt so sad for her shes babie
beyonc before i let go dance is literally the eletric slide in modern day terms.
 You're so beautiful 
imagine dionysus dance practice
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Ride Like The Wind by Christopher Cross on  
NP Dance On A Volcano by Genesis on 
Let's go baby and dance now Everybody Feels Alright by Sasha Lopez on  
  id pay to hear u sing and watch u dance damn the choreo you performed on ur story yesterday was EXQUISITE
 With the dance
Juicy J - Bandz A Make Her Dance ft. Lil' Wayne &amp; 2 Chainz (Explicit) 
The dance floor when they play Doughboyz at any Detroit area club 
Idk whats more upsetting the dance or how good this actually sounds 
Why do I love  ?Everyone is having fun!  surprises guests w everything from cakes &amp; fanc 
 MV -too very so MUCH(Dance ver.)15'0212 / 
You are listening to  Dance To This - Troye Sivan  ft. Ariana Grande
" ""No, I don't dance. I have two left feet. I'll be flopping on the floor like a beached fish.""

He "
Um. Why was my Alligator dance practice reaction blocked worldwide 
I wish I could dance
  Nd in independent India ppl like u who abuses Hindu God by showing demon dance in Hindu temple.
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : These Sounds
 - Charmes &amp; Rowen Reecks
 "
"Check out my crew latest dance video on our YouTube channel 
Link hear 
 "
The dance made me second guess the food 
  You will rock the stage out! I'm so happy for you guys! KIDZBOPWORLDTOUR2019 FUN 
I cant wait to dance to Love On Top at my (imaginary lol) wedding
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np I'll Be There For You by The Rembrandts on  
"PSA: you can climb and dance on anything. . . until they ask you to stop. So far, Ive not been asked to stop."
"Heres a playlist for you Best Dance Songs Ever! by j_dext
"
no offense but a boy with luv dance practice actually sucks  
 I love that they decided to use a screencap of her dance video instead of just using a regular pic of he 
sing a song as yet unsung. voice a dream and see it dance. move your spacious heart in service. 
MHS Dance Show 2019 //  
Who was your first crush?  A Senior in my dance club during grade school days  My friend's brother.. HAHAHAH YO 
Im trying really hard to find a certain TikTok by the below two dudes where theyre like sad but then the beat dro 
My first dance with my stunning bride. I love you so much baby xxxx 
Who was your first crush?  uugh 3rd grade dance partner  
"[BP] beruntung banget ada fansite Ros yang ke coachella 
SHE LOOKS STUNNING. EVEN HER HAIR DANCE WITH HER  "
" My aunt, mom, and cousin got to dance with performers tonight and we had a gentleman dance on the area "
 But i only like meduro dance and suroboyo song 
Awwwe. BUPC Dance Troupe and XTension Dance Company  
DANCE MUSIC - Ascot Sat 20th April  WesternRacepix WAracing AscotGoodTimes 
Well I'm am awful dancer so I can't say  but I need someone to dance to Latino music with 
 Ha! Ok then dance for me gray
Here's a 32 bit downmix of my new release: Suspiria EP! Official release coming this July!  
" Montrose -  Rock Candy  via             Ana, this could be one of your songs to dance to"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Lay All Your Love On Me by ABBA on  
New  is like YES BEING A WOMAN IS FUN AND POWERFUL AND NOW LETS DANCE for 11 songs and I am here for it.
"  You can ""dance to the music you hear, however measured or far away."""
When You See That Hot Chick On The Dance Floor! 
MHS Dance Show 2019 //  Beautiful performance dedicated to his grandmother 
Alyssas Spring Dance Showcase. 4.19.19 
When your edible kicks in and ya just can dance. thewateringhole
"  shes Mamamoos leader &amp; main vocal Solar, her real name is Kim Yongsun, if you dont know Ma "
"I always wanted to learn. For the past years I learned how to dance , do taekwando and joined tournaments, Ive tra "
Whats funny is these girls cant even dance 
"black madonna

my inner self can't help but dance to this song. the chorus is catchy af  definitely one of my faves"
MY PRECIOUS DANCE RACHAAAA  
"Via  At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella  "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm by Crash Test Dummies on  
"I teach sweaty dance parties for a living..... 
lifeisgood. "
   Spoiler dance omg!?
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Secret by Madonna on  
NowPlaying Choomba - Don't Make Me Wait on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
Me and my sister doing our same child hood dance routine and not missing a beat 
Let's go baby and dance now Through The Night by Drumsound &amp; Bassline Smith Feat. Tom Cane on 
Beautiful dance team! 
Legit trying to nail the Kill This Love dance thinking Im Jennie Kim or some shit
"Yet in my dreams is so much more.
Yes, they betray me; theres no closing that door.
As my head hits my pillow, wil "
"If you don't act goofy around me, not funny or can't dance then BOY I'm not into you."
Ugh. Now my favorite love song is on and Im like...  someone come dance with meeeee!
  What bar was this at I haven't had a good dance in AGES.
 This is my second favorite.  This and Candela move me to dance every time.  So much passion!
" I have to add. I'm tempted

Scarface ft Pac - Smile
2Pac ft Outlawz - Made Niggaz
Immortal Technique - D "
       Wonder what Wordsworth w 
 Let's all get up and dance to a song that was a hit before your mother was born
"I'm not going away, I'm not going away, Colombia's dance turned my house now"
solange joining beyonce to dance to get me bodied is making me feel something i havent felt in a long time.
  I've been thinking more Auntee step dancing but in the middle of the club with a Lose My Breath Dance battle
Beautiful and talented Darla Biccum gettin' it awnnn on da dance floor! officegamesmovie marriedlife 2bad 
" the crazy in love dance craze, formation, every body mad dance break, single ladies, etc"
 OMGGG!! OKAYYY BTW I AM A BIG FAN OF YOUR DANCE SENDING LOVEEE
" Daniel, Seungwoo and Jisung used to share a room. (Wanna One Go ep. 1)
 Wanna One moved to 2 new apartments. D "
 Hoseok is my favorite part of the dance line
 Yesssssss  I want my daughter to dance  
  So dont dance with me
 even preschool me would dance better...
Bebe Rexha - The Way I Are (Dance With Somebody) feat. Lil Wayne (Offici...  via 
" I think its like meditation.
For those 90 mins or so you forget all your worries, all your challenges "
 Hes the embodiment of dance like no one is watching . And at all sorts too. From Fleetwood Mac to Iron Maiden
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Voodoo
 - Pegboard Nerds &amp; Tony Junior
 "
" if you want to come to Tuskegee University and receive an AUTHENTIC homecoming experience, we won't be mad "
it being illegal to dance on good Friday in Germany is as ridiculous as it being illegal to wash your car on a Sunday 
 breezee na king..for dance mattaaazzzzzz
Can Chris Brown make his fingers dance? 
Highlight of the night was watching the Ying Yang twins dance to Buss down Thotiana 
 WE NEED A DANCE PRACTICE
"500 likes and Ill ATTEMPT to do the BoyWithLuvChallenge  
Spoiler- I cant dance"
whew yeah i'm gonna need a dance practice vid for this song asap
THEY PLAYEDJ ONE DIREVXUOFN AND I FUCKING TRIPPED ON MY DRESS WHILE RUNNING TO DANCE TO ITNDJDJDND
"Come and see AliciaGWorld's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Hi GuysDance Fun  
 "
Loads of great new music this week to share on the  dance floor. See yall tomorrow night. 
NowPlaying Sagan - Dance With Me (Original Mix) on orangeradio.net
Youre the only one I wanna slow dance w/..
  Does she dance?? 
Memories keep me happy so I be doing my dance lol
wtf the dance floor  
tory lanez x dance for me
"Period drama makes me I think of dance cards filled with partners to whirl with no more than twice, forgetting, of "
 Are u dumb or something. Single ladies is in the top 3 on every list for top choreography and iconic da 
This is gonna be Matthew on twitter years from now with my goofy ass doing whatever dance is in at the time  
"Told you, it's just a break dance Brigs :))"
 Kemyah used to dance w them. Let me find some pics
me when I dance in front of mx 
"The military ball was so much fun!
And of course, drunk me made everyone dance. I got a lot of girl numbers tonight "
stop ive had movie stuck in my head all day n i forgot they always do it at the end of the medley dance this didnt help !
I just want the DJ to play a good song so I can dance on the stage. Ugh! Tragic.
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Looking For A New Love by Jody Watley on  
Formed a dance group Little Winners Crew with miss As Min (2004) before debut
i wanna dance and i never danced to home like i said i would and now spring break is over. 0 bars
"Beyonc Coachella ""Everybody Mad' Dance Break Cover  

"
Westbrook baby dance is cray cray
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella  DTLA la "
"   I, a Canadian have the accent of the mooses."
"  LMAO then all of a sudden, the two idiots would start a brawl in the middle of the dance floor"
I'm drunkk let me suck yo dick on the dance floor
Yo momma dont dance and your daddy dont rock n roll
"if we need to dance, right at this moment i will practice and dance for them "
 SHE SAID TO DANCE REALLY FAST CAUSE YOU GOTTA DANCE REAL FAST AND MY FREINDS ARE ALL PASSED OUT IN TH 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Turn Up The Speakers by Afrojack &amp; Martin Garrix on 
Digital Underground - Humpty Dance (Official Music Video)  via 
Girls trying to dance like Beyonce 
   Same skin same dance move 
         
"Day Dreams is out go and take a listen


NewMusic EDM Dance dancemusic SoundCloud"
" Hey you two partners should do this dance... no really, you should. "
I didnt go to my school dance in the 6th grade and some mean girls had the audacity to text me we all know you di 
 Is he doing the fucking Gmod default dance
Theres always a dance or a ball ... TCMParty CalamityJane
 When I was a kid my mom made my dad take her to dance lessons at Arthur Murray Studios (he was so thr 
Once i asked a girl to a middle school dance to hide my gayness and i showed up and she never came and stood me up 
"If you like 80s and 90s music, then this mix is perfect for you. A new fresh mid tempo mix of famous soft, soft roc "
Lol what ? She is saying yall doing our dance .. we dont care if you go to a pwi or not . You get your education 
 I have known kpop for 10 years. I did dance mobs for kpop for some groups 8 years ago. I have dance rin 
"When I watch Gambino dance, I forget about my depression"
   :'D That it does. I just never knew HOW diverse and distinct.
this is the OG victory dance 
Head has been fully left in walkabout dance floor
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Kendari
 - Bougenvilla
 "
"Learn it from the Legendary Gurus and imbibe a new Culture. Open registrations for new Batch.

 FOR MORE DETAILS: "
Princess Ball tonight with these little pretties!. scarlettandlayne  zelle_fisher gizellefisher14 
Chicken Dance... in Space! 
like yall fr say a prayer for me tonight bc im abt to lose my shit. i really cant lay down for more than 10 minu 
 In the spirit of  too many guys would rather choreograph dance routines. Give me a F 
it's the chorus that i have a problem with like what the fuck is that even PLUS the dance ???? what the hell are you doing ????
 Cozy mating dance?! 
 their entire time in office. Hes done more for this country in 6 hours than you have done or ever will 
Dance with the star light in the dark cleaer sky This night's already begun - night flight
"that time dayonthelawn 2019 when Kram from  got the Anguss on stage for a spontaneous dance, Hobart, Ta "
" MUSIC VIDEO

-----LOVE&amp;GIRLS_Dance ver-----



_"
 I play your music so much my small kids recognize and dance to it 
  Oh man hell of a game by Smith there. His sv% was only slightly lower than what it 
"43: Intermission dance number 

Especially sa events."
For the senator nurses are playing cards its a global epidemic - seriously senator nurse nurselife yoga 
Mans skill on dance floor attracts unwelcome attention 
She was the one who dance with Sungjong in INFINITEs Man in Love Performance for Gayo Daejun.
I LOVE YOU2NE1RAYZA Dance Practice 
"""When the tree leaves dance, one shall find flames.The fire's shadow will illuminate the village,and once again,tree leaves shall bud anew"""
" I love you! each one of you! Thank you for being so incredible, thank you for inspiring me to dance. I love you, now united."
"Malamig po ba sa loob ng araneta?  Last time I went there for a dance battle, it's not as cold as Moa arena.. And "
" 1 shitty dance, at fault for our equaliser and winner not picking up Gayle"
My new dance single BoyKissBoy is available to preorder now at  
"   Celestials right.  Being an American myself, I know that my country contains many types of accents."
 Dance off!
  Sexy dance
 Tighten up ya dance moves 
"I'm about to give salutation to the cameraman.
The zoom in and out was so perfect makes the dance show look legit  "
Unknown DJ&amp;3D - Beatronic 
Especially that lil dance 
WATCH: CONGRESS LEADER NAGARAJ&amp;039;S &amp;039;NAAGIN DANCE&amp;039; FOR WOOING VOTERS GOES VIRAL AS NETA GYRATES WITH SU 
I dance with her 
"Babies~  Lol he looks troubled 
I waiting for the moment where  give  a blackpink's dance l "
"Dropped the kids at the ""house"" (Hunters Lodge) &amp; came back to dance a bit!

Rodeodance cadillacjackband "
dance little liar
I didn't expect this in the dance in the Skiddy Diddy dance off in @ Rum Brunch Friday VIP party  Da Fuchama 
Fuck all yo dead people . family &amp; friends . ill personally go to each of they graves spit &amp; dance on them fuckas . Ho dont play
My daughter really has the spirit of a dancer  she tries to do all dance moves and wants to watch dance videos on tv
  Even la miran know the dance  RedVelvet
This is my outfit for tonights Performance for Evita. Its going to be awesome! dance istillgotit tgif 
  Someone who can sing some catchy songs and dance around in a sexy manner should run the wor 
" Me &amp; my dance partner ,TRIBE couple dance.    BeTheTribe + RenaultTRIBER "
"We did  wrong. Look at the ""Sometimes I Run"" video. It's tender lyrics that are forced into a dance s "
Studiosounds is Nowplaying Format:B - Chunky (original mix) Dance Club  
GENESIS - I Can't Dance (Remix)  via 
" oh cool!! (i'll admit... i don't really know the lore orz)
the ones i rly like are doomsday dance, ret "
 Do you need a dance gif to get you back in the happy zone?
"Friday night date with myself
(Late night dance to follow)

It is not others job to like me, it is mine. So I decid "
Tonight's VRChat Stream Was A Lot Of Fun. Thank You To  For The Host And  For The Big Raid. Yo 
Mans skill on dance floor attracts unwelcome attention 
"Love my lil sis 

Download BEATS from my SOUNDCLOUD
 hit the link

Beats to Dance, rap, sin "
SkyHouse Music: R&amp;B with an alternative twist and DIY indie inspiration. Hip-Hop. Rock. R&amp;B. Reggae. Acoustic. Danc 
" Find the nearest seat and say hello. In this world, neither of us will not trap and try dance, if you "
Just dance came on so nvm
"  LOL girl everyone has an accent, especially Americans.
The UK is the birthplace English, so "
i just watched my old dance videos.....0/10
"like the Bon Bon Chocolat choreo is far superior than pretty much any Blackpink dance, and Everglow is from some un "
I didnt do the costume contest because baby got back was playing and I didnt want to stand in the stupid line and not dance it out 
Pretty boi can dance too. And you totally dont sound ridiculous trying to explain it.
 Bey is on the all time list no doubt. But she doesnt have any distinguished iconic moves/choreo. 
did jennie asked lisa to dance to with her?? 
" lmaoo this is amazing  and while it is true for *most* jams, I will literally dance ON the table wh "
  Hala Hala really is intense. I cant imagine how tired they were after music shows and f 
"Listen to New Dance Fusion, Groovy Attitude Remix, by Eempey Slicker
 
"
"Engage your kids with meaningful activities afterschool.
Coding &amp; robotics
Master of Words
Abacus and Mental Gym "
Cant wait to see this Dance INDIGENOUS youth GSD letsshowthemhowitsdone nextgeneration future revolution 
"The party isnt over 
We can still dance!"
 Sounds like this rant is all about YOU bill.  Its music.  Youre supposed to dance.
  you can't not want to dance when this is heard
"if the whole world was watching i'd still dance with you  
drive highways and byways to be there with you."
why am i crying while listening to Dance to This by Troye Sivan 
Happy birthday to my dance partner in crime  miss u! 
suck my gummibear dance
Yay for my first dance cover/challenge I'm not really a dancer guys so please forgive me   I just LOVE BTS SO M 
 Again nothing but lies! Get a life loser! Leave me alone! I hate you! Your hurt me for the last time in 
"   I love the boys not only for the sole reason of their music, but also about how down to "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Alpha
 - Omri Tindal
 "
When will Haters and Losers realize that learning that crazy Russian dance (you know the one) is a GOOD thing? Have 
" Hi God, not sure if you know this, but in Germany on good friday it is prohibited to dance. What you gonna do about it?"
"  Here's all I think I heard:
I saw you on the dance floor dancing,By the fire you burn rom "
  Stop asking for their comments. Dont do them the justice of putting their name in t 
there's a lot of people in the crowd but only u can dance with me
   (for me that outlet was dance)  i've learned to accept myself how i am and my imper 
" Yujinnie &lt;3 because she has a sweet voice, amazing dance skills, is beautiful, has an amazing perso "
     Mam u hv no knowledge about politics.. And hv no 
Dance with me
so sick &amp; miserable im abt to perform a c section on myself and get tate out this pregnancy has rlly been anything but easy
"What are you doing, ChaHun?  

Ah, this night... all is well with 2idiots+SeungHyub! 

""Handsome dan "
 you look so fine  I also like how your shirt says dance 
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy  qua 
I'm I the only nigga that cannot dance and think its not necessary
"  x.x That's familiar. I didn't know I had an accent until I moved to a different state, n "
" Good for you. I hit the gym, walk, bike, cross country ski, and dance as often as I can. At my high school football weight."
"Beyonc - Dance For You listen, like, share at "
it's the dance crew 
Were in a coyote ugly bar and I feel like Im just obligated to dance on the bar
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  JSO reggaemusic reggae dancehall dancehalllink
 At least Dance Central is coming out for Oculus Quest! I'm so excited!
  Love how they have like 2 sec break before the next section of the dance. Pastu tiba2 semua nari balik.
 Lemme come dance at ya graduation  
youre automatically attractive if you can dance or sing
"My happy moment now... rocking my fave songs when the house is alone! 
Latina Dance"
"plant your feet, take this dance, in the grand scheme, it's all just chance
no such thing as true love, it's all just luck, Lucky Love"
Wanna dance? Youre one fine woman
So I feel a little dumb...but...does Just Dance have any kind of tutorial or anything that I'm missing? No clue how 
 I wanna dance along your song. But Im still working. When I come home I will dance. 
"It's April 20, 2019 at 01:15AM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Relax (New York Mix) by Frankie Goes To Hollywood on  
Starting my day the right way!!!!
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Right Here by SWV on  
"14) 
-champions at a dance competition(interschool compete) ako yung choreo
-back to back  champions sa hype dqnce "
"Man, some of the kids are doing the same dance moves from 2010."
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Everything by Mary J. Blige on  
"What's more country than ""the hamster dance song""?? Nothing that's what!! "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: My Sharona by The Knack on  
"Not getting anything done on the fanfic, tonight. Y'all are spared a little bit longer. (If you've been reading Wai "
 Loved dance to this at my high school disco 
im delusional so im gonna pretend that lisa was blocking jaden to dance w/ them/jennie 
I remember when Bro Mann was on the news for hitting up that duck tour bus lmao he was hitting his damn dance...my mf dawg.
"NP  - DANCE  On NY's 1 CHH Station   ""The Positive Voice Of NY"" CHH PositiveHipHop"
" thats not dancing,, thats like teaching preschool children to dance,,,"
"But mostly I just miss how much fun we could have climbing dumpsters (lmao) and getting yelled at by teachers, and "
 When I was 14 I did an interpretive dance to this song for a show. I will never forget the words
"The MC is spending heaps of time in the Belarusian section, it's really nice. Says we're all really happy to have t "
"  On yes! This is cute! He's doing the
 "" happy  dance ""!  Have a great day! "
All I want is a dance partner + life partner. Is that a lot to ask...
Imma go dance w my tia brb
" Its the hottest dance!

I recommend not trying to hurt me.

&gt;-Fallen"
SO WE ARE GETTING A DANCE PRACTICE??!?!
I love watching groups of white girls dance and then watching black girls dance lol
"Oh, baby! Dance dance Angelic!!"
"Another PLUNGE 'Early Mover' salutes with DANCE MUSIC landing the cash at ASCOT, paying a best starting price of $2 "
  Like your dance !!
The best music hits now Lap Dance by Ycare on  
I just watched the cutest season 3 episode of The Goldbergs where Erica wanted the dance to be Dirty Dancing themed 
"At Sakura con dance,  dancing them dance moves! sakuracon2019 SakuraCon furryfandom fursuiter "
" People dance, get over it!"
going to dance to boy with luv today im excited !! 
Is this all just a dance routine?
Wouldnt mind a dub right now. At the 40/40 right now. More of a social club than dance club. Didnt know that.
"Yesterday in a galaxy far far away was Neil, a human. That day all they wanted to do was dance because they were f "
Great ride by  to lift Dance Music to victory first-up. The quality filly is one of several 3YOs from t 
"Now and then you miss it, sounds make you cry
Some nights you dance with tears in your eyes"
 Last night I accidentally squatted on the ground next to my sofa without pause from 11pm-6am planning a dance costume :/
Indian  sexy Beauty Dance - sweety beautiful indian bigo live girl | sex...   
Usually I'll wait for some flimsy excuse to post a dance video. This is too good to need an excuse. Delaney Glazer 
Congrats to the newest 2019-2020 DRHS Dance Team Members  
White folks ONLY do interpretive dance
She is just like the girl who lives next door.and dance very good 
"Everybody dance with me!
Listen and fall in love at first sight with our tune!
You can't take your eyes off!
Wo-o-o "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Ring the Alarm
 - Nicky Romero &amp; David Guetta
 "
 (7)  This might be the only thing relevant in these messages (I didn't mean to write a n 
" ""A dance? That's a new one. Didn't think there were any new threats, honestly."""
 Yes!!!!! Cmon! This is who we need- someone with guts and grit who doesnt dance around the issues-who ha 
sorry to wiggy and dance buddies for the snaps tonight cheers everyone!
"One of the most important wedding songs of the day, your firstdance song will be one that you remember for years "
Was in there for 4 minutes and got kicked out and its a buncha hillbilly 50 year olds watching little girls dance
"Summer comes soon!!
BONODORI will be held in Japan.
Everyone dance to WADAIKO(Japanese drum) wearing YUKATA. "
"During raid nights  's bird randomly yells ""FEET!"" and ""DANCE!""

He says they don't but I've heard them.

M "
Stop taking just dance so seriously
Celebrated my bday by eating popcorn and drinking Coke. Gummy is unbelievably active now. Like. Ultimate birthday dance party.
every dance move is on point uwuuuuuuu I just wanna watch performances like this all night
My phone died right after we got there but it was probably for the best. We had so much goddamn fun at the 
I Don't Dance - half_rice  
 Love u
"Friday's 5:00 story. ""You have to be together, you have to have the difficulty in your dance, and doing hard jumps, "
"  Hun 
Lets dance the tone"
Thanos cant even do the lean with it rock with it dance smh
" i am Barely Adult and yet,,, that's a Big Mood (except more so ankles, but also kinda knees, bc i mur "
Sometimes I just need to dance to make it all better!
 Is that the new rain dance?
 That is why you dance on Gandhi's ka ishara too! 
and you dance..?!! A MULTI-TALENTED QUEEN RIGHT HERE 
Egyptian Shumba and The Ostrich are the pinnacle of completely unhinged early rock and roll. And the pinnacle of ea 
". s Striking Dance at Lavish House Party

KiaraAdvani 

"
 Show him spider Man dance instead of pornography 
lol i remember when i used to dance no air by jordin sparks jabbawockeez style. 
I need a fucking man in my life. Even if its just a guy friend. Like fuck I need someone to dance with I get too 
 Just realized that  is Dallas from Austin and Ally. And neither one of ur characters can stil 
"California-style burritos in Wilmington, Delaware? Who cares?!?!? Im Guy Fieri and Im quitting food tv to pursue my real passion: dance."
Just posted a photo @ Prism Dance Club 
" HOSEEOOKKKKKKKKKKKK HOBBIIIIIIII MY DANCE KINGGGGG
CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!!!"
"im drunk without alcohol 

me when im having a dance party alone in my room at 2am"
Last Dance? 
"It's the heart afraid of breaking that never learns to dance 
It's the dream afraid of waking that never takes the "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Lalisa careful with those dance moves there are boys at the back checking you out. 
The success of a musicians career should be solely based on how many songs they have published in a Just Dance game
"Our Sunshine, shining over those flowers and even more on stage. 

Your undoubtably great talent has taken over the "
  Can they dance like in Happy Feet?
" I wanna dance with somebody to love 
Withney Houston "
  also swords dance with aura swords 
tell me the story of your first kiss! mine was at the 8th grade howdy dance right outside the gym doors i got a smo 
i doubt he would dance wearing two  clip ons tho... those would come off
 I swear if you dance like that Im on yo ass  its too late for this nonsense
"Apink - My My, Mr. Chu + Nonono dance cover by Awhite "
   Kick rocks man - I had to dance for my baby!
Just posted a photo @ Prism Dance Club 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Every 1's a winner by Hot Chocolate on  
Weve got moves  and  dance team taught our kiddos a nice routine to groove to!  
"Currently DJing at Roxy inside the El Dorado Casino! Come down and burn up the dance floor!
Eldorado Resort Casino"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: All American Girls by Sister Sledge on  
JENNIE FIXING HER HAIR LIKE /THAT/ WHILE DANCING IN FRONT OF LISA AND LISA JUST VIBING LIKE /THAT/ SKDKSKDSK DANCE 
" With who?
I NEED TO KNIW
I AM 18 I WANNA CHOREO FOR BTS 
okay NVM too far fetched I don't even dance as good as them"
Racing: Cracking little R2R double for InsideRunning with Dance Music at $2.10 R1  &amp; late drifter Plag 
"Come and see AliciaGWorld's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Hi GuysDance Fun  
 "
After I play  everybody dance  Im comatose.
*Dance for You*  
All the old paintings on the tombs they do the sand dance don't you know
 thank you for an unforgettable night in Santa Babara. Your performance has made an impact on me for the rest 
"Come and see Jash's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance gm all frndss  
 "
"there's lots lmfao jhbsksdb but here's just a few: if only by monsta x, touch you by vav (it's not even a sad song "
the perfect date was filmed in New Orleans I called the minute they were driving but I knew when they were at sacre 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Til I Met Thee by Cody ChesnuTT on  
"I admire senior Eunhyuk the most because he can dance really well, I need to learn well from him!  Luhan"
"JB is very excited to sing and dance the JYP choir 
I don't know what Im doing
GOT7  IGOT7
GOT7 "
why did they make us all learn how to square dance in 4th grade? srsly what were they trying to prepare us for
Wahoo! Our 2019-2020 dance class schedule is online and ready for you to view and register. Check it out - click on 
We at  about to default dance in the club
" Keita y yedam really
Seunghu y mashiho half moon
Junkyu y Mashiho FUN
junkyu, yedam y jeonwoo Last d "
I love Con Altura so much like all I wanna do is dance like Rosalia all over a qt
" diego
17
ariana, miguel, jhene aiko, paramore, alina baraz, 
sweetener album
black and white
my teet "
" *He's still humming in her ear, though his stops for a moment to place a gentle lingering kiss on her cheek as they dance.*"
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
DJKSFSDFIODS WHEN GAEKO WAS SINGING BEAUTIFUL TAEWOO STARTED DOING A WEIRD SEXY DANCE LMAOOO
"Dance. Comedy. Storytelling and more. If you don't know Ghenoa Gela, it's time to get in the know. This incredible "
Party 357 fitness polelite girlsnight poledance tcdanceacademy tcda polefitness Pole dance poledance 
Running into your old dance teacher at the bar is a very odd feeling...
I stan Parris Goebel &amp; The Royal Family Dance Crew!! THE ROYAL FAMILY - HHI NZ MEGACREW 1ST PLACE 2019  via 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Call On Me &amp;40;Ryan Riback Remix&amp;41;
 - Starley
 "
sore legs and bloody toes is just apart the dance life
 Plenty ya..... I mostly like dance numbers.... 
    White Cherokee In peaches dance.  (You are not the majority and we laugh at 
BRAND NEW DANCE VIDEO Anja - Crazy Little Thing DANCE VIDEO 
My love enjoy the music and let loose. Get drunk and dance out off your mind. YOU deserve it. Enjoy opportunities l 
"Teaching at  on Monday! jda_apissara 
dowhatyoulove paramaypanginstagram thailand bangkok @ Har "
A woman has started a dance group 
" Having my game glitch on steam and put 3 Earls' in the one scene, I think it was in dance mode, twas funnyy"
"  I dont have an accent  

That one kills me slowly."
"Come and see AliciaGWorld's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Hi GuysDance Fun  
 "
"""Shall we dance?""

(Shall We Dance, 1996)"
ok so i'm trying to draw everyday and dance for at least one hour and!!!!!!!! i'm so happy!!!!!!!
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Can you check these dance moves? I wanna make sure they're easy for my fans to do.
How THE HELL did I not know Dance Gavin Dance was in town. 
and now this is our last dance
"One more day before you go One more night everybody dance it all away(Truths, Ironies, The Secret Lyrics)"
Online on  join me! camgirl myfreecams bluehair love follow chaturbate vintage dance tease 
"Ya know, considering how I act, sing, and dance around my mom, coming out to her should not have been as hard as it was"
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : The Future of Hard Trance Pt1 Ep5 14th Mar 2019 by djenerjay Listen again or 
 YOO BLINK! please check our dance cover project of KILL THIS LOVE by Indonesian blinks. we put so much e 
"Now And Then You Miss It, Sounds Make You Cry/Some Nights You Dance With Tears In Your Eyes "
henny &amp; coke really got me hitting the dance floor like theres no tomorrow
Off with your head~! Dance until you're dead~! Heads will roll~! HEADS WILL ROOOOOOOLL~! *dancing*
Love our South Garland dance teams!!! 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Status Excessu D by Armin Van Buuren on  
"she would make music, and i would listen, and my heart, my heart would dance"
for being a dancer.... he... cant dance
"It wouldn't be a party without you BIGOLIVE &gt; dance Hi GuysDance Fun.   
 "
Anja - Crazy Little Thing DANCE VIDEO  via 
Watching my 3 year old nephew dance to the remix of old town road tonight was the highlight of my week and quite po 
 I had the meanest dance session at work to Go by Mario and Touch by Omarion. Free yourself!
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
 happy birthday kiiiim!! enjoy and God bless dance soon pls 
"Wow, he just threw everyone else that works for the administration under the bus to dance away from examining his b "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Radio Radio by Elvis Costello on  
girls that can listen to dance with my father without crying know how to fight
"No lie, I need to learn how to do the Electro Swing emote from Fortnite. And Daydream...and other emotes. Cause som "
"Left : when u dance and see ur crush
Right : when u dance and see ur dad
 "
Let me show my sisters maybe one day they will dance like this and laugh over old times like this.  
 Makes you want to dance doesn't it?   They are brilliant but god he is outstanding
 Dance w ma dogs in the night time
 YOO BLINK! please check our dance cover project of KILL THIS LOVE by Indonesian blinks. we put so 
Boii if we cant dance n sing together on  first album let me alone
" Man, I hope the Hurricanes beat Washington and we get a Canes/Blue Jackets match up.

Also, imagin "
Me when Dance A$$ comes on at the bar 
 Meet you on the dance floor!!
 Kitty dance SaveMidnightTexas MidnightTexas 
Cant we all just live in a peaceful world where we all sing karaoke and dance and sing and love each other no matt 
If youre walking on ice you might as well dance
Fabulously Stylish Girls Dance Outfit. Size 8-10. Includes Hair Bow! NEW CONDITION 
Lets take a dance class  the truths you have to grow inton
"On a scale of 1-10, how crazy would my neighbors think if I went outside to dance under the full moon in the rain at 1AM"
 They manage to bring back Star-Lord and he challenges Thanos to a dance battle. Star-lord wins and Thanos agr 
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : The Future of Hard Trance Pt1 Ep5 14th Mar 2019 by  Listen again or 
Cant really dance I be jiggin
"Pens and Lightning out in 4, Flames out in 5. These playoffs have been wild. Just proves that all you have to do is "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby No Love Lost by Syke 'N' Sugarstarr on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Pescaria (Canoeiro) by Gal Costa on  
  The camerawork on the final HALA HALA stage really makes it obvious how much effort is 
 But did you play bat dance at your party  
"Feel that rhythm, come alive, &amp; dance. music dance comealive "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"And if that doesn't work, she will break dance in front of Congress to Somewhere Over the Rainbow. "
this song gives me ptsd......LIKE THE AMOUNT OF TIMES WE PRACTICED THIS SONG....THE AMOUNT OF HOURS WE PUT IN...THE 
"1035

i guess, when she would utter 'Mama', she could see her outside, through the exit?

Her 'Mama' was out, talki "
NowPlaying on  - Shannon - Let The Music Play (Diffusion Dance Remix) EDM RadioShow onair  20/04/2019 06:06:54
Im proud of the fact that I was the first so many times in my world. First boy on the dance team. First boy to tak 
"Damn, I even know this dance "
" Same old song and dance.  ""Trump must accept the results of the election!"" ""Trump is not a legimate Presid "
"Jack, in the background: [/happy hula dance.] "
  If only Atlus would not spend so much time on dance games and give P1 and P2 remakes.
&gt; Aleph danced furiously across the dance floor!
"""Dance is a song of the body.  Either of joy or pain."" -Martha Graham"
 Elders Collusion Dance. Fauxcahontus bring pain. 
"This TEE DESIGN now available in various sizes and styles.  
SUGGESTIONS and REQUESTS always "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Make That Move by Shalamar on  
 OMG. *tries to dance the choreo* hello there!
Catching feelings on the dance floor&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;
seulchan talking about how they were practicing a bts dance and how doun loves them so much and asks doun who his b 
"Bro I would suck Eminem's dick to ""same song and dance"""
 thank you so much! i really want to be able to dance and work out again so im trying to tough it out :)
Watching James Brown dance compilations and I definitely think I need to step up my stage moves.
If you dont dance Im walking off. Keep the money and give it to some gay people.
Very overwhelmed by the amount of people that know how to do the dance go footfloose at this bar
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Lust For Life by Iggy Pop on  
"Now Playing Wes - Africa free Dance.
Listen here:"
  also how did they dance like that together .... it seemed so natural I- have they practiced before dhdjdj
This kid and his dance moves 
Check out the official footage from World of Dance Anaheim of our Zoologic Break Ninjaz get into the CYPHER perform 
  Whats the name of the dance? Is that the tango..?
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Letting People Go
 - Carnage Ft. Prinze G
 "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
 concept: they recreate the I Dont Dance scene from HSM
 Mood
Now Im somehow listening to dance music
"1033

she smiled gorgeously and took her daughter in arms. we did not bid goodbye, and i continued dancing.

i was "
 Every Happy
[inserts dance] totally forgot. 
  Teri malkin to Sach mai baar dance thi
Hey  am I good enough to be your partner in the next furry dance comp???  furry furries fursuit 
This boy dance 100% way better than me  
 its alright you should've dance also hahah
 It's cheesy and kind of dramatic but also incredibly sweet and lovely? I can't hate it and kinda w 
i think my favorite asoiaf theory is that bran is unknowingly being fed a paste made of his friend jojen reed for t 
"nothing like watching Derek dance to secrets ,,,"
dance rehearsal - blazing hour - easter service - solveons bday omo im packed
Me @ the dance call doing the MOST 
 Anything else?  Perhaps a song and dance?
Come on ! Let's Dance ! TKAngel Beats!
Stg  i cant dance and ive never danced publicly but when im in the shower its another story. 
"QUEEN DANCE Full versions
"
"Get Ready BlinkWorld cuase in 13 Minutes ...its..  BLACKPINKINYOURAREA Get Ready to Scream for Jisoo, L "
"Dance Gavin Dance killed the show tonight, that pit murdered my body"
my kpop bois just posted a Fortnite Dance Challenge YouTube video ft. Seunghyub THIS is it THIS is the standard of 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Sun Is Shining by Ingrosso on  
 I DON'T DANCE NOOOOO YOU CAN DO IT
" &gt;gETTING UP-

Hey man- I dont wanna use my dance on you-"
Time to drink champagne and dance on the table tshirt  
I'm hoping this car ride scene to the dance will be as fondly remembered over time as it deserves to be. 
lrt remembered taking traditional dance in primary school but not continuing because i was basically ostracized for not being malay enough
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Jugg (Featuring Monty) by Fetty Wap on  
Come dance 
    Lol maybe his own wife doesn't want to dance with him. Now w 
 im doing a DANCE
I wanna dance!
Dance Music defies the late betting drfit to win at Ascot. Nice result for Luke Murrell's Tips members. $2.3+ late 
 Have an AMAZING BEAUTIFUL BIRTHDAY SHEMAR  love joy peace manyblessings PartyHard dance laugh celebrate 
 yall came for us first tho? over a dance at that  yall have better things to worry about im sure
"I just need a clean space, a clean dance floor so I can polish and master the steps to this dance ugh! "
" Thank you so much,  It was a great celebration and I have evidence that learning to dance "
 I took a dance class and then ate a 20 piece box of chicken nuggets soooo pretty good
 Just get to the dance... 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
 theres a lot of fun parts and it sucks that games like dance your blox off and that one fashion game are kinda ruining that
Washing your body in the shower but interpretative dance
 1 second short of R-Truth and Carmellas dance breaks
ok so i put gucci gang as music in dance your blox off full of these 9 year old girls and i actually won 1st place and got the egg B)
"High, gang! Are you looking for some 420 parties? Today's mymilligram newsletter has some ideas for you, from dinn "
I need someone to be the uncle to my aunty so we can listen and dance to old R&amp;B songs together
"I'm doing it for all of us who never got the chance
And all my birds of paradise who never got to fly at night
'Cau "
harry trying to do the kill this love dance moves before he goes to sleep 
Shocking tongue dance. Bet her bf must be really happy with it. Anyone else can do this? LivePD PORvsOKC USA H 
When you have a dance to a song its never the same from when you first heard it 
"that middle school dance was fun lastnight :) @ Athens, Ohio "
 Can you do one for non dance music please?
If you dont dance you cant be my type
"Wee are the dancing shovel dudes, we are the dancing shovel dudes!
I dance on the left I dance on the right, we're the dancing shovel dudes!"
Really the only league where it feels like you have a chance if you show up to the dance 
"Check out choreographer   (The Squad FunkyWunks, World of Dance) TODAY helping us celebrate our anniversary "
Rushed to make it to the liquor store. Now Im 3 jack honey and ginger ales in and I wanna turn on the water hose a 
Im tryna dance
 Just in that case here's the biggest wish from the HOTTEST GOHEM ON ITV. Dance with them 
  I really love him dance What is love? I would love it if I get to see him dance it person 
"Shall we dance--in the next battle, I mean? I'm a great partner."
Rubicon is the community dance organisation for Cardiff and Newport and was one of the first of its kind in the U 
Good win by Dance Music at Ascot for  members. Sat outside it's main danger and toughed it out in the straight.
Tara guitar lesson! Saka dance lesson. Let's make our summer productive 
How to avoid a hangover:dance and sleep lmaooo
 Wym my duplicate!! You has met them from time to time!! Dont you remember Yujurgini?!?! We met them in Sing 
Images out of Disney Board meeting Circa 2016. Chapek accidentally over uses the orb of IP. Being desensitized to o 
The dance scene in Romy and Micheles High School Reunion is the best piece of cinema I have ever seen
"Kyler Gordon was named ""Mr. Spotlight"" at a national dance competition when he was 8 years old. Now he's out to pro "
This is very random but if you guys had to pick 4 artists from 2 gen Kpop to be mentors on a show like produce 101 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"They may cut your dick in half. And serve it to a pig. And though it hurts, you'll laugh, And you'll dance a dickless jig"
C-ta reinacts that one Risky Business Dance scene when he's alone. Pass it on.
"Wishing that ure eating well, so that you have energy to dance well. Fighting Kookie  jungkook JK kookie "
My song and dance will break out of your words once again.
"Finally Seunghyub joined the 2IDIOTS, a dance challenge NFlying "
 Greatest dance of all time
 Im not even gonna worry about it I know its just a dance lol 
"  the way he sing, his voice is so good &amp; yes the way he dance too! he's so talented! &amp; n "
"Specialty: Rap, dance, beatbox"
"Another side is to let YG know that its time to change my girls solo dance to the new one. 

The writer has alr "
   Love you! Love our trance family.
Feed the birds so you can dance with pigeons! Hysterical picnic mishap of Stanton dropping his pb&amp;j turned into a w 
"Let this iconic tap dance video reachs 1M views!
EXO Kyungsoo 
  

"
"We love you loveyou lovyu!!!!
QUEEN DANCE
"
Ladies! Dating a guy in a band? Intimidated by groupies? Dont be! All you have to do is show them up on the dance 
A therapist told me once in the midst of a layoff that I should tell my daughter we couldn't afford dance anymore. 
It was a slightly alarming drift but Dance Music gets home from Catherine Wheel in the first of my 2 plays for the day! Hope you got on!
When Beyonc dances its hot. Its trendsetting. Its TRANSENDENT. When I dance like Beyonc it looks like Im having a seizure...
im crying he was already popular amongst his dance group and girl used to take selfies with him jdjjdjdjdjjndn
if u don't appreciate tae as one of the dance line then u 
"Hi this is just another tweet of me expressing my love for dance, but wow I just really love dance"
ima get in that pussy &amp; dance in it
have a great weekend everyone! dance party and dontdosomethingiwouldntdo
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"It wouldn't be a party without you BIGOLIVE &gt; dance Hi GuysDance Fun.   
 "
"Peniel's voice + Hyunsik's dance = DEADLY COMBINATION. 

THE ROOM IS ON FIRE.

PS: Hi daw bebe   "
You talking about Dance Moves? 
"Anyone know of any xv tomorrow, Im tryna dance "
maybe i spent $82 on a b-52s ticket. gotta dance this mess around ig
Be prepared with these steps to dance on May 23   
 practicing those moves?? ???????? i hope thats not for later JDSKF I CANT DANCE FOR SHIT
"Join a class that exposes you to the best of local Ghanaian music, drumming and dancing.
Are you a lover of traditi "
"this is even funnier because its dance gavin dance, when i saw them the security was not having it either  "
Strawberry Swisher pt. 3 by Dance Gavin Dance  NowPlaying
" Apart. I know that things are different than before, but maybe.... Just maybe we will get that dance. "
Party 357 fitness polelite girlsnight poledance tcdanceacademy tcda polefitness Pole dance poledance 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Fantastic Voyage by Lakeside on  
"""Filmed in Beaufort, South Carolina, for the 1BillionRising VDay Dance Flash Mob."" - () Visional Media
.
View f "
" Today is 1 year of  o l s ou, a beautiful song that makes me dance until I sleep  "
Stay Forever(Dance With You.1987/08/26)
HEY SLOTS ARE STILL AVAILABLE FOR URBAN DANCE ONE! ENROLL NOW!! 
 Can u go live wit tray bc we miss the lives and that lap dance u gave him a few months ago was jus whe 
"Nerds &amp; Geeks: remember when you always sat by yourself at a dance party trying to act like you wanted to? Yeah, yo "
Intro + Happiness Dance Cover by Red Velours (Debut Stage-140914) 
 Im sorry I didnt respond to your Snapchat. I was wobbling out on the dance floor
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Shake It Off (Seamus Haji Big Love Remix) by Teamsters on 
Now playing Heart Of Gold by Johnny Hates Jazz music best hits rock pop dance on  
 They dance handsomely
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY BEST FRIEND AND GO TO GUY I love you so much Joshua and Im so thankful to have a friend like 
" Today is 1 year of  o l s ou, a beautiful song that makes me dance until I sleep "
"Signing off for today, folks! Have a great weekend, everyone! goplay laugh dance"
"When she turned 10, Victoria attended the Beijing Dance Academy where she learned all sorts of dance including ball "
KINGDOM DANCE APPAREL is starting now! Listen live here: 
SHINee-RDD (remix)+Everybody dance cover by SHAWOLES 
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella: One common assumption about the demographics of Coachella is "
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella  downtown california "
The sight of hundreds of people repeating identical dance movements was quite stirring. We even joined in. 
"    My office's revenue paid for theater,  dance, music and film ed programs f "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Run Dat Back by Jadagrace on  
" Arkansas (Arkie) Woodchopper and his Square Dance Band et al.
 Arkansas Traveler
  "
"I can watch 
&amp;  dance all day

Click here  for WatchOut 
 "
"So, anyway, this random dance movie I found has a mom with a relevant degree who cant get a good job because of "
Dance For You. That song is sexy af 
omg i know my little brother knows kill this love when i was watching a dance cover video and he heard the song he 
Tonight I was having a smoke and a dance while I listened to my tunes. I glanced over at my surroundings as I dance 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"""I ate too much plastic candy."" --Ralph Wiggum Last Tap Dance in Springfield (Episode BABF15) Simpsons"
"Later, in one of the main squares, a mass dance spontaneously broke out in honour of the day. "
follow  pop songslatenight epic empire maybachmusiceminem mmg fresh beat dancevibe hiphop 
   They're in the same profession. They both sing and dance. You may not agree wit 
They didn't hold anything back in this! They even decided to try the famous lift... 
 my!! jina!! not your crush's jina not your dance partner's jina MY jina 
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by  
"with a smile, a song, or a dance. Enjoy your Saturday 
______________________________________________________ "
"DRAMA CLUB : ASTRO VOYAGE 
INTERGALACTIC QUEER DANCE SOCIAL

SAT MAY 11 @ 9:30 PM
 
PAY WHAT YOU CAN "
"The k hip hop performance was so cool yesterday when they all wear black for the last performance. When I saw that, "
Gold digger remix shuts any dance floor down
sjjjams NOW PLAYING ON FIRE TV &amp; ROKU TV | SHAKE &amp; DANCE by TY CAUSEY ADVERTISE ON TV WITH US 
old town road remix in the county ! yaaaaaasss !!!!  ....new dance moves huh 
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  MARK RONSON -  Nothing Breaks Like a Heart (Feat MILEY CYRUS) 
Ecoutez nous sur : "
"Dance or Die 
This altering of memories can make traumatic events tolerable. But it can also result in "
"my cousin has a new ""daily exercise"" where he does a fortnite dance to megalovania"
Dance in your underwear.
NowPlaying Jeff the Marine - Shut Up &amp; Dance on  radio LasVegas... Tune In Here!  
Today's Dance YouTube Video The Chainsmokers &amp; 5 Seconds of Summer's Who Do You Love 
Today's hit Hip Hop in UK. Drake's One Dance (feat. Wizkid &amp; Kyla) 
"I AXIS RADIO, WIAX - Dance Classics"
Bride-to-be exchanges engagement shoot for photos of first dance with dying dad instead 
Lance Stephenson rockstar dance after a trey ball is top 5 taunts no debate 
Lay down that boogie and play that funky music till you die .                           curvyzelma 
 Reasons by Earth Wind &amp; Fire. Best long sloe dance song
"Laugh. Dance in the rain. Cherish the memories. Ignore the pain, love &amp; learn, forget &amp; forgive because you only have one life to live!"
this has to be one of the best dance moves ive ever seen 
[GRAVITY x K?] BLACKPINK KILL THIS LOVE DANCE COVER CONTEST WITH Kia  Festival in BKK 
dance dance by fall out boy is now on the radio this song came out in fucking 2005 whats going on where am i
  The stun dance!
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"Did hot yoga after work before leaving on my trip. 

Smoked one 

Put my Play my shit playlist onnn 

And drove u "
 Wow this was good I feel like I would love to dance to this in a club 
 That boy can dance his ass off
"Stars in the heavens
&amp; the moon's 
Rays illuminate
The night
Bringing the darkness alive
Lighting up the velvet bla "
Walter Subject - Just Dance Artist Radio live netcast playing the newest Metal Barbwires and 
i need to leave before I start posting my dance covers
" If everytime Mucus Dance pilfered the liquid assets, why did you let him partake?

Required to, this is the United States Dude"
 Girl me! Lets go dance
2018  World Hip Hop Dance Championship Finals Adult Division  Armateraz (Japan) 
"Yeah

Same song and dance

Damn girl

Everywhere I go

Same song and dance

I LIKE DA WAY U MOOV

All over the glob "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Hold On Tight by Electric Light Orchestra on  
Best rock pop dance music Now Blue Hotel by Chris Isaak on  
"20. One Last Dance - Us The Duo

:'( "
 bb hood's cool hunting and wesker's phantom dance would be cool to see if possible
I feel soooo free when I dance.  
 How to dance happily when the DJs are playing nasyid and jiwang karat songs throughout the kenduri kahwin?
  That little dance omg I cant  I love it.
Gaudreau all pissed off. He can only blame himself. Was a no show in the Playoffs. Like I said about this Flames te 
 put another distinctive and sharp performances. They look stunning as always while executing the powerful 
 Hahaha we cant contain the dance fever 
ohhhhhh I wanna dance with somebodyyyy
my friends and i have been trying to learn the dance to Kill This Love for an hour and were only 40 SECONDS IN THE 
Here is a dance area for this night. sakuracon2019 
Michael Jackson used to be a great in music industry but his death made him more relevant just like Biggie and Pac. 
 I-add mo na rin ang dance practice ng I Need U.. that sealed my addiction. 
"Thunderstruck,"" is a new performance from  is a time trip, a theatrical spectacle, and a referendum "
day6 dancing to so cools intro is the best dance performance. they truly deserve the best choreography award of the year
what really makes this shit worth it is seeing how passionate some ppl are about supporting art they like. I wish I 
came home to dance!
"

Yaaaaayyy! Can't stop watching this!! 
Must waaaaatch!! 
Keep on sharing and watching ACna "
" Beautiful Hoseok. I admire you, I love watching you dance, it fills my soul. Kisses from Uruguay, Montevideo."
"I tell you anyone who has LEFT behind the ways of the constitution plainly and simply, without any room for misinte "
 You're doing great. *He rests his head against hers as they continue to dance.*
I just wanted to go dance 
he dance better than me wthhelllll 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"Party for one 
if you dont care 
Ill just dance by myself
Back on my beat "
  can i re audition lmfao
"Havana Nights Prom Court!!! Have you gotten your tickets yet? Dance, Food,Music, Photos and more!!!  @ Stone "
"KILLTHISLOVE BLACKPINK dance cover by Cherry 
Full: 
.
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
Check out this awesome video: [PREVIEW] BTS () 'Boy With Luv' Dance Practice 
" Ye dance tu kar raha hai n  
BTW Thankyou so much Raj "
These tiny dancers had a blast at their first day of dance in our Trolls Session!  Call us today to register your 
"A conceit that gives you
temporary reprieve in the middle
of the night
Tell you what life is
even though they haven "
Playing Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy on the piano is causing my brothers to think that our house is haunted 
 Lindsey at the end of a masterful performance of Big Love for The Dance. His talent outshines everyo 
 Like Im sure if I did classes I would be able to do a backflip but I never have been able to danc 
I see some people dance and Im like how do you move your limbs like that !?!?!?!??????!? R
NowPlaying IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey Dance  - Ideal Music 0008  
JugandoAhora @ IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey Dance  - Ideal Music 0008 
"See you tonight at GSB &amp; Tiplife Present Queens of Dance Concert 
 29 Studio Mono 19:00pm 

From "
 tons of remixes of 80's dance tunes
 Im doing my little dance cause they good af
"Let's go baby and dance now Moscow Fashion House by Frenmad, Andy Bruno on  "
"Never wanted to dance with nobody, not you!
Never wanted to dance with nobody but you-
Never wanted to dance with nobody but you"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Momentum
 - Don Diablo
 "
Free the legend  
" So, big girl, you are ""warning"" and threatening  because he is asking to look at your c "
Boeing - Dance On The Beat  via 
". Late Mail Ascot

Race 1

3-1-9-2

Catherine Wheel faces her biggest test at her third career start "
I know a 5 year who needs to be apart of dance. She is a natural!
"Girl: do you wanna dance? 
Me: honestly I have Buffalo Wild Wings waiting for me, thanks tho. 

Lemme tell you. She was real confused"
"    Go dance with your wife, Shane. I'm sure that as goofy as "
  so says the one who made me sleep on the couch just cause I came home late from dance practice and would 
 Your feelings are all valid. I have friends that died and some days all the pain and anger comes right b 
"Yoo just remembered, I never went to a school dance LMAO"
" Oh please.... MJ didn't invent moonwalk dance to be disrespected like this.
He was god, he's known "
" Congrats for BTS.. Hope more win ths comeback. N love u Hoseok. u r more pretty than flower. 
Hwaiting f "
     Probably their mating dance (Yes Im aware that 
I just rewatched the run episode where they shared their poems at the campfire and omg my heart :(((( and then Jin 
"At 78, Calypso Rose throws a dance party at Coachella - Los Angeles Times "
I honestly cant for Dance Gavin Dance next Sunday.
" it just a great tune, for our first dance song, i wanted slide away but the mrs wanted if i had a gun"
I wish I could put into words how light my heart feels watching timmy dance
"Bogummy is beautiful, both inside and out. He is so adorable and pure! I love how hes a big eater. I get satisfact "
Love me a man who can shamelessly dance with his bros
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"brb gonna go dance naked under the full moon and summon some hell-fire!
"
"   If you want Weight true value of someone, let him/her dance, it reveals how worth s "
"You sexy little thing
Give it your all
While you looking at me?
Go play with your ball

Same song and dance"
"""It's 2019. *Surely* you can play the album version of Bowie's 'Let's Dance' by now..."" JustSayin HesMoreThanEarnedThat"
rock pop dance classic hits now: Knock On Wood by David Bowie on  
Support independent artists. Help us grow our TRIBE on Spotify and hear our new single for free. Just follow this l 
Dance Therapy for Parkinson's Disease  health
Visit Conjunto Guantanamo's Event Calendar and see upcoming events in your area!Come have some fun  with CG and do 
Dance Therapy for Parkinson's Disease  wellness
"Jhakassss!! The ever-young Actor Mr. Anil Kapoor is no less than an energy pill! 
The maddening Crowd is Obvious wh "
" JoinTheCult Folks!!! I love going to Cure Fit.Here the classesare great, instructors are enthusiasti "
okay next time i NEED a TWITCH AND JHOPE DANCE BATTLE!  
Body Chemistry!!! Highlights!!! The Drums!!! Live At The Chain Reaction!!! 04.02.19  
We love seeing IDT alumni at our shows! Dont miss your *last chance* to see our spring performance tomorrow at 11 
For Armani to wanna Challenge me to a dance off. Lul girl i been doing this. Cayla Washington Brittany Bridges
" Okay, so without any offence to  Bengalis are well versed of how to loot others p "
thank you ellin's store/dear daon store/standard love dance shop/dalls shop  for the goods!!  alegofb 
 Why can i dance like you guys!!  saranghae unni
This team of 6's dynamics is pretty fun! I love how they just break out into dance whenever there's music haha! And 
"no 
b i l l i e 
I haven't done that dance since my wife D I E D 
"
 Ray Kennedy - Dance The Night Away Ray Kennedy
" Lmao soooo let me be !  dance like nobodys watching , that is my motto  lol"
" yikkkes, looks like my dance skills finally got exposed"
I hate minimalistic ideas that hate cycles because they don't dance.
"walking on the west highland way, look at the fun that we HADDDDDDDDDD-
walking on the west highland WAY, look how "
 Real question. How the FUCK do I dance like you???
"Frankie Yankovic
Dance Little Bird "
  He seems unsure of whether the intruder is there to fight or to lead a hip hop dance class.
"Summer Dance Flashmob Sis n Bro,Moldova!"
 ITS RALLY DANCE TIME 
 come watch me pole dance in hell 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Space Cowboy by Jamiroquai on  
" Hang in there kiddo! Saturday's shitty weather won't help. Maybe dance a little, like Rosie.  Sent you th "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
I CANT DANCE EITHER BUT I CAN DO BETTER THAN WHAT SHE DID KDDBDK 
Omg I swear Ive listened to this song at least 20x today. Just waiting so see the visuals so I can do the dance at 
Lee Ann Womack - I Hope You Dance  via 
 I genuinely appreciated their skeptical takes throughout the investigation. But their blind eye to th 
SOMEONE INCLUDE SAKURA'S FORTNITE DANCE IN HERE. 
"The Eyes of Children around the World
India  Parham Didehvar
""I took the photo of this little angel, dancing, and "
"Then put Van on the jukebox, got up to dance"
Time to decompress and dance all night!!  attending SPACE - Revelry Opening Party at Rich's Houston 
 I sleep. I play an instrument. I dance. But mostly I sleep. Then I wake up and Im hungry. Then I read. The 
23. Can memorize a dance move/routine by just watching it once or twice.
just trying to watch a dont dance/sing kpop challenge and  lost at the opening to the video
 i HATE videos of myself dancing but here i have pics which i kinda hate too (this is the dance i have 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np El Perdedor by Joan Sebastian on  
  we were always bored &amp; loved to dance lol
 I just know that if I find blood on a dance floor there's going to end up being panic at the di
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Connected by Stereo MC's on  
 Deadly Dolly Dance
Let's go baby and dance now Play Hard by David Guetta Feat. Ne-Yo &amp; Akon on  
" now atleast u can dance to tetema...
  u wont tetema alone"
Its not all about the music. The performances and artistry behind all the production work put on that stage really 
"Im proud to be in a community that brings the importance of dance in such a growing, powerful culture. KPOP has ne "
"I love the dance community gaining recognition through one of the biggest platforms today, Kpop. Fans are starting "
should i dance tonight? im pretty beat
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
They dance this dance alot..... 
 please release  dance practice for Dionysus! 
Top ten reason I love being black. I can claim this even tho I cant dance 
 Makes me wanna go dance 
 Here for a rock show not sold out packed af can barely move sweating like a sauna no joke
"My dance teacher got us cupcakes  

Carrot cupcake  for Bunny me  "
Kenichi Ebina Performs an Epic Matrix- Style Martial Arts Dance - Americ...  via 
Thinking about The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya and how when I was 11 I spent HOURS watching mirrored videos to le 
"Me: 

Daft Punk:
                 
                 
  celebrate &amp; dance    
         so fre "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Selfish
 - Dimitri Vegas &amp; Like Mike Ft. Era Istrefi
 "
We hope you like tiorr1 Moorlands Ghost Dance by Snake Oil Remedy  on 
"So I can once again dance
Send me the rainbow
A promise of new beginnings
-Emmy"
 I prefer to dance! 
 They dance this dance on the regular....I kinda dig it. 
ohhhhhhhhhhhhh i wanna DANCE with somebody
"campexposurela offers a dynamic &amp; affordable camp experience which includes STEM, dance, tennis, music, water pl "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Check New Youtube Muzik video    EDM MUSIC Dance House Dubstep Electro house
"See you tonight at GSB &amp; Tiplife Present Queens of Dance Concert 
stadium 29 Studio Mono 19:00pm  "
Saan ba maganda mag dance workshop? The Addlib or Gforce?
Should probably drop a dance video tomorrow 
[Sound on] This is a clip from 15 minutes of every dance move or contortion I could think of. Filmed in our old lof 
" 
You are stumped, you fell for false data, and now you have nothing to stand on.
So much for ""sim "
" Yaaasssss gurlll
That dance routine is sicckkkkk"
Okay but I need Boy With Luv dance practice ft. Halsey or just Halsey to upload a video of her practicing the choreo
this is how white people dance and they have the audacity to call girl groups that do cute concepts untalented  
Im just ready for it to be warm so I can attend the cookouts and line dance with my old folks
I just spent 45 minutes in the shower practicing my dance moves for  Atlanta show... Im here to say they are UNMATCHED
This bartender is tryna smash Shane and I just wanna dance but no one else is.
 My dance king 
"

I wanna get to know my moots bc I feel like were all friends  tell me your favorite thing about you or someon "
I finished bwl dance practice and rn Im sweating so much;_;
" This our TRIBE 
We Sing, Dance, Play, Roll, Apply Effects, gym and roam around cuz its all about "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: P.Y.T. (Pretty Young Thing) by Michael Jackson on 
Best rock pop dance music Now Dyna-Mite by Mud on  
Watch MJ dance to AllNight in a banana costume at 11:36. ASTRO  
"GREAT DANCE MUSIC &amp; FUN HOST!
We will entertain your guests with great dance music &amp; fun host. We play all music ge "
Hey  !  Who's ready to dance?  We start in just 10 minutes!
if the whole world was watching i'd still dance with you
In ishaka you need to be ready to dance Lingala  
"Weve been fostering a culture thats popping pills and Prozac, when what we should be doing is more prevention an "
I saw this cute chick to dance with but homeboy said she aint cute so now that he gone im having thoughts\trust iss 
" Hoseok beautiful
Hoseok wonderful
Hoseok talented
Hoseok handsome
Hoseok unique
Hoseok amazing 
Hose "
Note when my dad asked if I have a date to the 8th grade dance he used they pronouns cause he knows I'm gay now. But I haven't said it.
when that man asked gloria bell to dance and she said no thank you i FELT that
Im doing legal non-aggressive dance moves in the comfort of my home to justdance and my joints are popping like I 
" 1. Student adviser/ombudsman (Classics/Western Civ.)
2. Dance/drama counselor (day camp)
3. Preparing "
all i do is dance around this damn house. and everywhere else. li booty be moviiiinn
Singing I wanna dance with somebody on karaoke is truly a workout by itself
Good job boys.  That's how you win. Make that goalie dance.
How many retweets for you to post a video of yourself doing the chicken dance?  ..ehat 
"Gligar, the cause headaches in the Pokmon and dance. The excess energy within forests. Known for human anger in love, so it came."
Medicine by Jennifer Lopez | Regine Tolentino | Dance Fitness | Zumba 
"Jake Dillinger then proceeded to spontaneously dance to ""Everytime We Touch"" by Cascada."
"The more I dance, the more I fall in love with myself all over again...this has already been a fulfilling start to "
 You stay woke and dance with them musty hoes lol
 Combinedddd you say......well..ok just 30 minutes more..*tries not to happy dance* Then movie and 
"It's like I waited my whole life for this one night it's gon be me, you and the dance floor "
 OH MY FUCK SHES IN THE LAB???! THEY WON WORLD OF DANCE LAST SEASON AND DTRIX CHOREOGRAPHED THEM ALDNSKNJDBD
" Namjoon is my time for the dance classes tomorrow night at the gym 

Is my keyboard tryna roast mine "
  Was that Alex McMurtry in the stands doing Alicias dance moves with her at one point?  Looked like her.
I dance like whenever Im eating 
 Mirror now thinks every should dance according to their choreography ..use less fellows
3 months to go for remake of Lion King. I just want to know will Disney put Timon - Pumba hula hula dance or not. I 
"she'll dance in the dark, a real work of art"
" I wish I could remember who it was that said this, but I heard someone say white people dance to the lyrics, not the beat"
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Go Deep by Janet Jackson on  
 oh she TALENTED i would like to see the dance content maam
DANCE LINE SUB UNIT PLEASE
The 'Macarena' (1995) is a song and popular dance by Los del Rio.
follow  pop songslatenight epic empire maybachmusiceminem mmg fresh beat dancevibe hiphop 
Let's go baby and dance now Red Light by Fe-Nix on  
"This is really important. 
Me and my sister use to dance to their songs in bathrooms"
" Donee 
Btw Dance nya I like  "
"At her new school, she improved her dance skills through doing performances, events and practical examinations, she "
I just wanna dance allll night
Bryan Ferry and His Orchestra - Dance Away
"   I will dance there, I will spin around, and nobody will bother me. This is lovely!"
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by 
 Her Indian drum? Did she do a rain dance too because it looks like it worked.  Is she holding a pow-wo 
"Now on Swing &amp; Blues Radio: Come Dance With Me
by Diana Krall
at 00:50:17
"
 Bahahahah Top Ramen isn't food my man  a straight diet of that will make a person look like you.. 
   Please he never fails to have me over impressed with his moves and expressions. Never i 
Parks Spring Dance 2019- Glow In The Dark parksbest2years parksleadership parksway 
Now playing 020. Basto - Dance With Me.mp3 by !
"10 years ago, Greenville, NC's public wifi downtown helped me manage a complex paperwork dance on short notice. Unf "
"  God, you people dance. Just say for ffs. Barr needs to go."
"april 19, 2019 my 2 years of dance co has ended and now to finish high school with cheer.! my heart aches but is ea "
"The Dallas-based dance craze is reaching the top markers of popular culture  and has been done by Lil Uzi Vert, Dr "
Why can't taco trucks go around like ice cream trucks??? I would dance like Selena Everytime! 
"Im just tryin to dance like this with my man.

"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Perfect Storm 
 - Made In June
 "
"1018

and then he started moving on the dance floor with the little girl, dancing in front of each woman he could f "
GOING ON RIGHT NOW AT PAPI BOY FRIDAYS PACKS  EVERY FRIDAY NITE IN WEST HOLLYWOOD!!! 16+ gorgeous Go-Go 
    Who asked you?
Had this shitty customer today and all i could think in my head was that she looked like the freestyle dance teacher vine lady
Idk whos in charge of the fucking recommendations on YouTube but I demand their immediate fucking public execution 
Now playing I'm So Hot For You by Bobby O music best hits rock pop dance on  
A little  to cheer me up! Dance Tonight is seriously my favorite song 
"We could have been so good together
We could have lived this dance forever
But no one's gonna dance with me
Please stay..."
 I know a lot has happened and it's just been a pretty shitty time for you..but maybe another more light h 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: You Don't Fool Me by Queen on  
Mark my words.... I will learn that  everybody mad dance. homecomingbeyonce
"Late Post: Tony-boy at his first school dance, he said he needed to look Fancy"
 Sad you didnt like the Brahms-dance.  glad you liked the Schubert... more important for me.
"Has CBeebies Puss in Boots inspired your kids to dance? 

Our website has some great top tips for you! "
  No dance like Jamaica party dance 
Ties and Tiaras dance  was hugely successful!! A special thanks to all faculty and staff who made it pos 
when she did the dance break in the lwymmd video i gASPed
 I have shit for dance class tap shoes ballet shoes soccer shit etc about to send me 
NowPlaying reputation By  on  - Today's Music REMIXED for the Dance Floor! 
 But you cant dance
"Dance floor is really jumping here.

Going home. "
Ready to get drunk &amp; dance
Lose yourself to dance
New post (Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo)) has been published on Animation Short Films  - 
"MIDNIGHT MUSIC
Remembering ...
Luther Vandross (1951-2005), DANCE WITH MY FATHER "
"cat dance storyboard, drawings, cats, "
"happy 1 year NTLTC, my mom woke me up with that song this morning. and remember im a heavy sleeper. i love this so "
 I know someone that can teach us dance again
  Im not a BTS fan but their performance was great. 7 dudes with great dance moves and some catchy ass 
The amount of embarrassing dance videos people have of me is ridiculous
When I see Exo doing the relay dance and the 2x speed dancing challenge before I always laugh but know when I see i 
" Run Away With Me, Gimmie Love, Your Type, Lets Get Lost, When I Needed You, I Didnt Just Come Here "
"Join a club or team 

-If you want to make friends with the same interests try joining a team that you would enjoy "
no one will agree with me that nobody by mitski is a dance anthem !!!
paint then dance in the energy
Standing in the corner of gay clubs has taught me: Not all gays can dance. 
Dance Like a Stripper by M.E O.G  via 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"       And now your an EU puppet colony, "
 I met you in KY last week (was the first champagne room after your dance).  Thanks for being so fun.  E 
"New RAmovementFREESTYLE Video on my instagram! 

Check it out
   



dance dancelife freestylefriday"
 I rlly want a dionysus dance practice but thatll never happen
"New video out link in bio.

Tiger dance  with real tigers .
paddehuli djsurajrajput filmisuraj bengaluru "
What I wanna know is why on Dance moms do the moms even stay all day? When I was at dance for like 3+ a day my mom 
"   The shaking bum dance.. that dancer is saying, yama yama yama, so theres that. I "
" Walaikum assalam 
Good morning Beliy
May the morning breeze
Stay around you
May the flowers bloom fo "
DO THE PATRICK DANCE
Lots of respect for Julia for making a boy feel still good after I wouldnt dance with him
I need a night to just go out and dance bachata  Any takers?
"hey,  got it just in time for tuesday :-) any chance me and my two friends can meet you? maybe we can dan "
  Dance anyway!
 You can dance if you want to!
These earrings remind me of my brother grass dance clothes lol
he b like [french word for a dance move that i cant spell bc idk french]
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
theres something so freeing about dance &amp; movement. Happy I found kristan.shocks class &amp; can boogie with all t 
PlayingNow on DJ ARCH SOULFUL HOUSE/CLASSICS RADIO David Dance (Reelsoul Remix) by Giulio Bonaccio Aaron K Gray 
i wanna be a trainee to work on my dance and vocals but i aint even asian  and america dont have stuff like that
"Is she wearing yellow or chartreuse?                               This lady, and own of sloan_and_parker gives me "
"A southern spring evening, the moon is shining &amp; it'd be perfect to turn up the music &amp; dance with a warm hearted g "
 hajajwaj basically im watching beyonce and remembering how i used to dance and if i did one minute of wh 
"1. Look at sweet Naeun totally channeling Jennie
2. This is what I've been saying about Blackpink's choreographers, "
" [  ] Roen, it doesnt need to be possible. People breaking out into song and dance isnt possible either."
Let's do dance on Balakot attack drama. 
"

DSP Music, that shit set and to top it MB dance.

CRAP..... "
"To Know Herself, an exhibition at the Wattis Institute, creates space for queer women while exploring the spaces "
Despite my best efforts I feel like I look like this whenever I salsa dance salsa dance 
Announcer: and now a number that involves funky jazz dance movements 
i see dance gavin dance TODAY im gonna die
"
Here is a cover dance of BoyWithLuv feat HALSEY by my talented friend  Chimchim. "
 I learned a hard dance combination in 10 seconds
Man I love Dance Gavin Dance yo
I love going to a bar that has music and watching White people dance. The rhythm is nonexistent. 
" it's true,,, we all have two wolves inside us, those of us leftists have ""neo-marxism"" and ""postmoder "
sometimes you just have to dance by yourself to the Tarzan soundtrack at 1am
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Suzy Q by Creedence Clearwater Revival on  
Where can I sign up for dance lessons? 
Day 1: I had a dream that   were helping me learn how to dance for a competition
 Don't go back. Get up. Bring out that smile again. There's a brim of sunshine waiting for you. The cold s 
 watching white girls dance is cringeworthy 
 Goddamn Daniel go dance or hit on someone or something.
"Sohni kudi milade, Rabba meri life banade . Enjoy the groovy thumping beats on this! 

Li "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Take It
 - Dom Dolla
 "
"It's My Birthdayyyyyy 

...cash app me if u wana give me gifts 
4/20 birthday today mybirthday life fun "
 Afande otulina buh can u even dance
 Gotta learn how to do the shmoney dance still tho
  I'm just as white as she is and i know damn well I can dance better than t h a t jfc
  Good effort to copy the fellows in this dance session 
"I cant wait for tomorrow, Ill be seeing my BnH  "
 Every time they do a silly dance
What does a faggot gotta do to get to Guava Island and dance with Childish Gambino
 Dance for you
Leadership Ss working hard before the Spring Dance- Glow In The Dark. parksleadership parksbest2years parksway 
"  I wish I was taller
I wish I was a baller
I wish I was a square dance caller

That... "
still waiting for voices dance practice
 come dance fuck head
Now Blasting:  Death Therapy - Slow Dance (With Death) Listen live via  
Let's go baby and dance now Love Story by Taylor Swift on  
"Check out this item on Etsy
Inspirational  LIfes a Dance Rustic Wooden WallDecor  Home Enc "
there's just that natural swag and smoothness in the way he moves. he tends to overdo it when he's acting silly (an 
"Thay did the choreograpy for HOME. Thats cool, isnt it? J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy "
" especially rosie and lisa, they're great dancers and its not being shown with these simple and repetitive dance moves"
my family played and did the dance for this song for every slumber party that we had it became tradition 
"Welcome to the race Creepy Joe, let's see you tap dance to this one out of the gate. "
Dance with me
Nothing straiter than 5 guys dancing to the Humpty Dance together by themselves
 I see why people had a lot of Children then. One dance like this and everything is set!
"so my table at this restaurant/club is by the dance floor and ass is in my face, I aint mad"
  Sorry. Brain fog. I understand now. Dance in your chair and ask someone to film it! Ill do one with my walker!
"I like to dance a lot
That's who I am"
 The dionysus dance is very very very nice! 
 isnt that the amor fati dance move
My favorite dance move of all time is the leg scoop hop transition in the electric slide whats yours?
 Cougars hosted our 1st 'Ties &amp; Tiaras' dance and it was a HUGE success!! Shout out to Dr. Comer for the 
 did I ever tell you how in high school I absolutely brought my very hot dance partner from my studio? 
ten's taki taki dance video has the highest views for nct's solo dance fact 
all i want is a fat ass so i can dance to city girls
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
[GRAVITY x K?] BLACKPINK KILL THIS LOVE DANCE COVER CONTEST WITH Kia   via 
Heart Basel!!! Highlights!!! The Drums!!! Live At The Chain Reaction!!! 04.02.19   
 OUR DANCE KING GET SOME REST PLEASE 
"Link comeback stage Starnight_NWO at ""Show Your Dance 2"" Lippo Plaza, Kramat Jati  "
"Taeyeon mastered the PUBG dance!

 she's so cute 

TAEYEON PUBG "
howa a7la 7aga fel graduation kant el fire show m3 el yanni music bs et5adet kaza mra mn el fireworks  b3d kda el 
  Proof that white people can't dance 
saw people talking about youngbins dancing and reminded of that younbin is part of dance line and rap line and a leader tweet... wheW
" Of course I am. I get to dance with my son, try local healthy food and look around this amazing m "
 I hope you dance is the quintessential movie/tv score thats meant to move you to tears!!
Im gonna dance with  this year somehow some way.
DANCE PEOPLE  DANCE  BLACKPINK BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: I'll Go Where the Music Takes Me by Jimmy James on 
Freddie McGregor - One More Dance
I wish I was as good at anything in life as Beyonce is at this Partition  chair dance. BEYCHELLA
Nigeria!!!! i said the whole thing Baru was doing was a dance without bits 
Nah but for real. I could listen to and dance bachata all day. That is my soul music. I feel it in my soul and deep in my veins. 
"Things that are necessary:
big fish time dance"
hays.  i don't think i'll ever experience any kind of dance parties in your life.   apec kasi
 YOO BLINK! please check our dance cover project of KILL THIS LOVE by Indonesian blinks. we put so much 
I literally dance and write essays all day I dont have time for anything else
"  TRANSLATION : We, the bhakts, are still committed to our goal of destroying INDIA, but we "
Without a song or a dance what are we?
   YOO BLINK! please check our dance cover project of KILL THIS LOVE by Indo 
"Hays.

I don't think I'll ever experience any kind of dance parties in my life.  

Apec kasi "
"    While your doing your happy dance, can you dance on over and give s "
after dalena screen recorded my private dance lessons and posted it on her twitter i promised myself to never send 
blast Uproar on my headphones and dance around my bedroom kind of lit.
 You should be with me ill make you cry but only tears of joy you should with a man not these little 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"""It's also about knowing in your heart that you may never reach that glorious moment until you die so live life on "
 Are you talking about the popular 90s dance song? 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Inside Love (So Personal) by George Benson on  
Idol Mania - All Together Now (American Hands Up Dance Mix)
 YOO BLINK! please check our dance cover project of KILL THIS LOVE by Indonesian blinks. we put so much ef 
"Just Dance is awesome! 
        Like, who needs a gym when you have a game to dance to?"
"  Did your widdle feelings get hurt?  Since you serve up lies, slander, and dance to "
  Oh Malcolm is head dance coordinator and so so much more haha
"Tweet more positive Ijaw stories,the beauty of our Culture,Traditions,Food,Lanuguage,Fashion,Dance,Music,Our people "
        
I love how ros just makes me happy drunk like I just want to dance right now
"Q. Yena is best at?
A. Dance  Vocal Rap Aegyo

 "
Heartbreaking Costumed bears are forced to dance and perform leap-frogs in front of shocked tourists too frighten 
"If we dont have chemistry when we dance bachata together, youre not the one for me"
Fist pump in the middle of the dance floor  I love partying with college students!!!
I wish my girl friends wouldve came with me so I can have someone to dance with 
"1011

all this while, i did not notice her beckoning each one to lift her up. she went to women only.

i thought th "
Is it time for a dance break yet? 
Dance salsa on the dick 
"i want to do a dance video related but idk who of the exos i want to include, help me ahre"
"Working the shift in 11 dance bars, countless clients and trips to Dubai later, 24-year-old approaches court to hel "
 Watch this and all me a sing is everybody everybody drunken dance
  I see the dance moves charley 
"When youre ready to hit that dance break, but then remember its not the remix ver. "
Tonight I'm gonna dance for you.
"   
Ava Max So Am I, Sweet but Psycho,
The Chainsmokers Hope,
Billie Eilish Bad Guy,
Jess Glynned Don't "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Like This
 - Mike Cervello + Yellow Claw
 "
SHINee-Lucifer+Everybody dance cover by SHAWOLES 
Best rock pop dance music Now Disco Inferno by The Trammps on  
That little dance is a whole mood  Congrats on that shout out bro keep doing the Lords work  
SkyHouse Music: R&amp;B with an alternative twist and DIY indie inspiration. Hip-Hop. Rock. R&amp;B. Reggae. Acoustic. Danc 
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody is listen "
Just want to go out and dance thats it
i miss taking dance classes
 i learn this from him everytime i see something exciting and if i did something that gives me fulfillm 
"Idc tho, ima dance regardless "
"...and when the night falls, my lonely heart calls... (oh, i wanna dance with somebody)  "
I hardly expect such a dance.
I act like a top but dance like a bottom
Watching white people dance is painful
Lmaooooo me my brother my mom and dad was hitting some dance moves at our wedding shower bruh I'm fucking crying lm 
"When you really can't dance and your friends want you to prove it but it's not end up like in the movies.
I told you."
Apink - Good morning baby + Bubibu dance cover by Awhite 
me trying to dance to my fav kpop song 
When Michael Buble says he wants to start a dance party on the stage you start a dance party on the stage
" Short list but:
I Hope You Dance- Lee Ann Womack (personal reasons)

Dont Take the Girl- Tim McGr "
NowPlaying Dance In The Dark by Lady Gaga at Live Jam 107 ( /  Liv 
Black market music  poppunk goth london punk dance soundcloud photographer mixtape Digitalpainting 
 The fact that they can really dance well &amp; sing at the same time 
"It's My Birthdayyyyyy 

...cash app me if u wana give me gifts 
4/20 birthday today mybirthday life fun "
" , dance yourself clean........what a music video. I know Im a day late and a dollar short.  Jim Henson!!!!"
I feel like I should share this dance off between karre and pooda   bc Im still crying 
Now playing Dance in Advance by Tony Tidwell &amp; Uncommon favor!
. should come to la vaca and dance and eat tacos.
New Artist - Herman Kelly - Dance to the Dr
"Dheesa dance at yesterday 
My cutiess   "
"Made my day!! So theres one deck that actually spins, 2 speaker cabinets, a video screen behind and the round thin "
 Nope. We are NOT doing this again. Aaliyah taught us how to dance...Mary: 
I will never NOT chair dance when MIC DROP comes on. It 100% happens. EVERY. TIME 
"ERIN: I guess we don't have to fight other kids.
ROBERT: Not only are you doing?
ERIN: I think it's kind of sad at "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
hi hes kino hes a 98 liner and a aquarius sun capricorn moon hes nice he likes to be babied 80% of the time ull 
I was born to Dance GigiChiBi
"it's actually hard to work with someone who cares so much for the micro details but at the end, those micro details "
YO THE MALE DANCE TEAM AT MY SCHOOL DID A SMALL BIT TO WONDER GIRLS NOBODY
I wanna dance with somebody who loves me 
"Muse of the Flying Dream
Anywhere you want to go?
I can dance to this!
           -BAO "
" Every time I see this video, the ancestors SCREAM &amp; DANCE. Such a treasure. The Congolese with Col "
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by  
 Thats pretty amazing! I love Irish dancewish I could see her!
 I want to see you dance JHOPE !!! 
"Wow, can someone please explain why would the INC ecosystem do this? Trying to build more pressure on CJI to dance "
"  Please dont do Sandra Bliss, our freestyle dance teacher like that."
The fact that Netflix thinks a cheesy dance movie is only a 68% match for me is all the evidence Ill ever need t 
cant wait to dance around the house with all the skinnies :) &lt;33 
I wanna dance again. Im gonna make that happen.
"Tonight I found out that you can in fact chicken dance to anything, thanks to chinito.a.rivera 

Congrats to the ha "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Barraca
 - Garmiani
 "
    What type of dance is that
"Tara dance cover tayo ng Mr nice guy lab lab

MrNiceGuy INIGOxWENGIE"
The best thing about living alone is being able to dance naked whenever I want.
" It really does say DANCE
Idk how you guys or your stylist-nims find such amazing pieces. I am amazed "
Idc what anyone says Shawn Michaels could and still CAN dance. 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Precious Little Diamond by Fox The Fox on  
     Bat flip = TD dance 
I saw Mista doing this weird dance when I was spying on them. He called it hitting the woah and it went a little 
imagine being able to dance like ten and has a beautiful voice like him too.... cant relate
" Ah! Kirby's epic yarn!
I last played that in co-op with my younger little brother in late 2015'ish(...Wh "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Total Eclipse of the Heart by Bonnie Tyler on 
"Let's go baby and dance now Make It Rain (Featuring Pitbull) (RLS &amp; 2Frenchguys Extended Remix) by Courtney Argue, "
"Solo dance party time!!!

"
"*does a dance* You should dance, for the butts!"
Madeline Mihacevich | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19 
Zoologic Break Ninjaz | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19 
Fuego Dance Crew | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19 
 Best characters to dance this song
"and then the 'epic' part happened...

this little came on the dance floor, she would be like 4 or 5, may be 6?

she "
"Drop the full dance practice video please 

JUNGKOOK  

 "
 (Plus youll get to dance with me to it soon)
Friday night! Champagne rooms and bottle service! Dance specials throughout the night! BYOB open until 5am! 
 It proves dancing is what he was born to do  MY LITTLE BABY HAS DANCE RUNNING THROUGH HIS DNA 
DANCE MUSIC to start us off at ASCOT
Please kindly to check out my new cover dance Red Velvet - PeekABoo here&gt;&gt;&gt; Thank you! Redvelvet PeekABoo  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Owner Of A Lonely Heart by Yes on  
"She began attending a dance academy and then later as she became interested in singing, she also went to attend a vocal academy."
" 
Dance sport
Crocs slippers
Boobs &amp; butt "
why did I opt to take a dance class where it is required you wear heels when i have NEVER danced in heels i--
"NEW WORLD ORDER? NO
DANCE FUCKING PARTY"
Just ditched a girl on the dance floor...... karma hittin hard
STRAY KIDS MAFIA DANCE MY PACE
rock pop dance classic hits now: Talkin' Bout A Revolution by Tracy Chapman on  
"Rocky's choreographed aegyo  even his hands dance well 
ASTRO   "
 Heyyyy watch some videos of the Royal Family dance crew. You are gonna adore it  love you boy
"so not only did ESAM take the dash dance forward smash on shield drop from Tea at Prime Saga, he has now been 10-1' "
 I really love the album. My favorite song to listen to when Im cooking is Dionysus and when I want to re 
  yeahh . even if he show his twerk booty dance or hes showing his bare back to be baked belo 
Life can be an ol briar patch gotta dance your way through it sometimes
 I only know this song because of Dance Dance Revolution but I KNOW it because of Dance Dance Revolution.
"I always suka this kind of dance, my cert in traditional dance berhabuk dah dlm file. Maybe maybe i will do this du "
"Secret Band, which consists of multiple  members, have released their sophomore full-length on 4/20. Cel "
So I gave a stripper a lap dance 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
" Little embarrassed I haven't bought it yet, but I'd love to win it. Something nice: spent 3 hrs volunteer "
 That was you at our 8th grade graduation dance
   Yes! This was my favourite of the season (excluding this Monday's Show Dance of course)
"SOAK UP THE SUMMER AT DANCE KRAZE!
Unplug yourself from the World of Technology... Cross Off the Summertime Boredom "
 This team and specifically this dance lead &amp; band version of can you stand the rain literally opened my 
I just paid $40 for a lap dance...
 Dance of democracy in modi government
A very cute first dance tbh
Old town road dance tutorial plsssssss
I didnt even lnow that camacho knew how to dance 
dont you wanna dance? 
" But for now, we can go clubbing and walk in holding hands and dance the night away "
"Bts dance practic how lovely 
BoyWithLuv
BTS  "
I love to dance why kids with their brains cracked wide open
this is how i dance when i feel like shit but cant go to sleep without having my nightly dance hour 
 Thank You Simon ( I Love Your Name! My Moms Wild Friend SimonFrom Hawaii loved to Dance to Hawa 
  Sexy old school dance joint keep the party on
Dance with me until you feel alright Rooftop Chitown Cerise  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Barbra Streisand &amp;40;Radio Mix&amp;41;
 - Duck Sauce
 "
if my future man DOESNT dance like  THEN I DONT WANT HIM 
"When a man who can really move his waistline gets behind a woman who can dance, she dont move. Facts"
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock She's Strange by Cameo on  
" Love me dizzy
while the world tilts
like a lunatic circus
wipe the blood from my mouth
legs tangled
bodi "
"    On the dance floor, no one can hear you crinkle."
I CAN FEEL IT BOY WITH LUV DANCE PRACTICE IS COMING  
"Quality You Can  




innout quality influenster melaninpoppin blackgirlmagic blackgirlsrock vivid "
whenever I come home Gina and I dance around the house to broadway songs I love her sm
Ladies. Why do you go out and be on a dance floor but stop when a dude gets behind you. Lmao. Its just a dance. No 
"Oh thats the dance for sure, Im walking in everywhere like this! "
 'OHHH THAT'S GOTTA STING! YU IS MORE THAN LIGHTNING IF HE CAN BRING BURNS LIKE THAT' The announcer 
 if you wanna    
Bro... Lilo fucked Myrtle Evans ass up at dance class 
 Dance covers are at least 1/3 of the media I consume these days. Good choice.
Racer Dancer - Just Dance (Lady Gaga cover)
"Favourites have won 10 of the past 20 editions of the Champagne Stakes.

Can Loving Gaby replicate the likes of Pri "
HE KNOW OTHER GROUP'S DANCE BUT FORGET HIS OWN GROUP'S 
Michael &amp; Rob started a dance party! 
 dance lite Mahesh matter lo inka...
Download our app and listen to Your Love by  go to  radio np nowplaying commercialfree
"Just a small tribute from JabraFan  to  here is the link plz watch it once
 "
"Contestant 5: Chelsea Greene 
Chelsea Greene is a junior and a first-year masters student studying Elementary "
 Im so ready for the next dance lifecycle to start.
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB The Way We Are by Sunfreakz &amp; Jeremy Carr on  
"  honestly that's a vibe ive been waitiing for. imagine ""bands will make you dance"" dropping "
"Mirror dance videos?
I STAN"
"If your in Texas and dance  Randall Reed aka The Ford Whisperer is doing another contest this time a $90,000 cash "
"1004

i did not dance with her, though she moved past many a times, that too when entire floor was empty.

she was "
"Because she way out
I've never seen her dance moves
Dancing like she way out"
for any ~young people~ who ~follow my page~ Sugarland was a club in Williamsburg where we all pretty specifically w 
I honestly enjoy watching people who arent good dancers dance their hearts out way more than good dances.
I. want. to. dance.
Me and tiff used to dance to this song Okay well wobble if you want but like you gotta go pee
Id buy it. But whos going to do the interpretive dance DVD?   ?  
"YOOOOO, THIS SHOW WAS CRAZY!!!!! I feel so honored that i got to see some of the people who help me to keep fightin "
Now playing POLE DANCE  by MUNGA!Dancehall World
Love on the dance floor! See where it all began for Nikki Bella and Artem Chigvintsev.  
6 Reasons You Should See the Carlos Acosta Biopic Yuli - Dance Magazine 
cover dance 
yalls imagine dula peep in blackpink's dance studio then mag learn silag choreo
" fill up that energy bar, take a nap, eat some nummy nums, take a dance break. watch spongebob. i love you goodnight"
CHAEYEON your dance is sooo hard...[] 
"HABS
1. Now subscribing to GM MB's saying of ""just get to the Big Dance"", and NO, it is not a lack of ambition 
2. "
BC talent in Winnipeg!! What a week! happylife winnipeg bcmen bcboys music happyeaster easterweekend live 
will we ever get the dance practice or them reacting to the mv or do they always post them late
im gonna shoot you because you dont let me do the fortnite dance i- what
" Ok now that that we know les twins are in it, it has to be people in cat suits right? You dont get "
My band forever will remind me of Spence bc of her lil salsa dance she always does
"  That's beautiful, I like the dance"
This raggedy club had the audacity to play Rihannas Where Have U Been but not the icon mic pussy pat dance break! 
break dance pt 2 
        
NowPlaying on  - Darlene Davis - Loveline ['12' Inch Dance Mix] -   funk 80s disco radio classics
I had a live at the mall today! It was so much fun to sing and dance again~ I cant wait for my next visit~
"1002

And from that dance, she touched me in every dance and once even hold me in her arms (the way dancers do). i "
 Just dance
White people cant even dance to the rhythm to their own music lol.
"Dance. Smile. Giggle. Marvel. TRUST. HOPE. LOVE. WISH. BELIEVE. Most of all, enjoy every moment of the journey, and "
once joy learns to dance with her entire body well be 5 for 5 and we truly will b in danger
"nobody: 

literally no one: 

me: AHHHH SOMEONE GET MARRIED SO I CAN DANCE AHHHH"
 his name is lancelot he likes to dance a lot
. FUCK you skinny twinks ive seen parasites dance better than you cow shits
 I will never tire of watching that dance scene
seeing white people dance and slowly veer of beat is probably the funniest thing to watch
"atsukara Take my hand.  Let us dance among roses, with only the glimmering night sky as our audience."
first dance 
Liven the dance floor but not TOO MUCH
Children Dance 
make ya dumbass dance like bloc boy jb  stoopid
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Laid So Low (Tears Roll Down) by Tears For Fears on 
Best rock pop dance music Now Mo Underground People by Bob Sinclar on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Blow That Smoke
 - Major Lazer Ft. Tove Lo
 "
I wanna dance bachata 
"Homecoming on  is EVERYTHING.  IS QUEEN  

Features her Coachella show coming together and everyth "
" my fianc and I are getting married at the house of blues in New Orleans on June 22, 2019...well be danc "
El Uber basting African music  kinda dance hall stud
NCT 127 'Wakey-Wakey' Dance Practice  via 
" TAXI DANCE
LALISA LisaBLACKPINK"
niggas hit the woah and swear they can dance 
"3:30 at Forces Lakes
1. Dance In Up
2. Lancing
3. Lottle Bold
4. Armed Attew
5. Whitting Star"
" Can I hug you handsome and slowly have this dance? *Snaps fingers and love music plays, he's a grinning giggly boy*"
"*my dad and I watching our planet as a male bird attracts a mate with a dance  
My dad: I would not be able to resist that"
" for me, figure skating is ballet on the ice, i hardly understand nathen chen said that if we want to "
  dance line found jobless
"Milan, Italy is waiting for you. Find somewhere to dance with  dance salsa"
Heavy Kollider  - Just Dance
when is bighit uploading boy with luv dance practice video im sickkk
 ily my dance king 
I dance this kind in MAEPS and well yupp I still love it.. I used to be in traditional dance team before .. how tim 
honestly seeing people i sort of knew in high school asking/being asked to a dance is so sweet and i love it
I mean Im white but I know I cant dance
My very first solo release is out now check it out now on soundcloud  (I will post other links in a thread)
" Mitty is a dancer. Just a lucky fellow who spun some money into more money, with the help of friends "
i can't dance bc my whole body hurts 
"1000

i guess she was conducting some kind of class, and that poster was for it.

i saw her a few times on the beac "
My favorite thing is white people who think they can dance but they cant
unironically does a fortnite dance at 12:30 am
The Beatles - I'm Happy Just To Dance With You 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
esse break dance de when i grow up eh TUDO
Love this dance  we left it all on the floor  
i think princess Cinderella me is wear this beautiful handsome elegant attractive angel shoe to dance all day and n 
 Dhakdhak girl again swayed my heart away as expected in film Kalank with her fine artistic dance mo 
  Wow sorry to hear about that Robin!Thats a wild story!Ill keep it on my list till I run 
 Haiii!!! So excited to see you tonight !!! I wanna dance all night long 
 Dance For You by Beyonc on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Sierra Leone by Mt. Eden Feat. Freshlyground on 
"""Somebody call 911! 
Shawty fire burning on the dance floor 
Whoa! 
I gotta cool her down 
She won't bring the roof "
YOU can dance                                        YOU can jive- having the time of your life 
 Dance until the morning light.
"Yea I like to dance around on my tip toes, mouth the lyrics to Sade and kiss a man (that I love) all over his FACE.. its sweet"
(jisooya's upchar ) jichupic: jisoo really really hyped up and so powerful no matter how many times she had to dan 
WEEELP i forgot to tweet out my own stream BUUTT thanks  for the awesome raid! i had a lot of fun tonig 
just dance is shaking  
"FlashbackFriday to SAYAWAN 2016! Our Danceathon opened w/a Gansa Circle of indigenous Filipino dance, music &amp; so "
Couple&amp;8217;s Crowd-Stopping Boogie-Woogie Teaches Today&amp;8217;s Youth What Dancing Really Is!  via 
"YOU CAN DANCE 

YOU CAN JIVE 

HAVINg tHE TIMe of yOUR LiFe"
literally no one wants to go out and dance with me tonight for my bday celebration. wtf
someone needs to start a dance challenge with this and trend it call it the leader dancE or smTh 
"Door dorshan would have never thought that someone could dance on their signature tune.
Just watch it out......
Goo "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Spargo - Head Up To The Sky - Spargo on 
Toon Link is OP because their dash dance is bullshit
"Hey,People on the dance hall now  Shake your body more and more and more  Let's bounce bounce bounce  Don't be shy"
skating indian dance-nice performance 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Can you just drop bwl and dionysus dance practice right now  for scientific research. Thankyou  
Where did the 30 million go to produce 400 pages of what we all already knew.
 That's my go to dance move
i wanted to dance along but i didnt have space to move 
"okay, I liked Lisas outfit better last week, BUT Im glad shes wearing shorts so she can dance"
 Im jowable po im maeffort and tries to do everything i can sing all night and dance all day and draw p 
How you gonna go to a dance and not dance ????
Soon as my baby turn 3 Im putting her on somebody dance team  she love dancing
flashback throwback to Alaia showing off this objectively legit dance move as we are trying to rush out the door 
"Come and see LanaLailana's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: Its FriYay! Gifts make her DANCE  
 "
"DANCE LINE:

The Adventure Zone: The Bank Robbery Incident
"
  Almost as good of a tap dance as Tavares to Toronto. 
"KINGS OF COUNTDOWN!!! 
BoyWithLuv by  is 
NO.1 on  countdown. Whoo-hooo. Doing my happy dance.  "
"   I hate Ross with Rachel and basically all of his romantic relationships, "
"i remember seeing the promo (what little there was) and seeing michael everywhere, with everyone saying it was his "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Skank
 - Kura
 "
"We gonna dance for you...
We gonna sing for you... "
"first of all, beyonc created a concept full of diverse dance styles but cohesively exhibiting one idea, which is h "
  Let's dance in misery. 
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by  
jisoo really really hyped up and so powerful no matter how many times she had to dance and sing this song 
Say it every year. Just have to make it to the dance! 
WATCH: Frankley Everlong 'Endless Infinity' music video via Dying Scene and get the deets on new album out Jan 18 a 
 I am see the Kanchana 3 review you told me dance bad . Not bad is Good theri step Bluesattaimaransir 
MY THEME SONG FOR GETTING RID OF DUMPF LET'S DO IT AGAIN MY HAPPY DANCE 
 whoah yves dance wildly. 
Learn to dance to the tune of life!
DOORS ARE OPEN! TONIGHT! MORRISSEY + THE SMITHS Night {Underground} DTLA 2 Floor Blowout CALL/TEXT YOUR FRIENDS &amp; 
" NEW SONG  

Money Dance  "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Zedd &amp; Katy Perry's 365 
Have you heard GhuluOne X: Snake Eyes by GhuluOne on SoundCloud? np  music producer 
"Rogers has gone from viral darling to low-frills pop star. Still, you could be forgiven for wondering what the big "
Watch Dr. KanakRele's brilliantly etched out performance at the NCPAMudraDanceFestival on the theme Hasya- From 
"nobody:

not one person: 

not a single fucking soul:

me: YOU CAN DANCE, YOU CAN JIVE, HAVING THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE, OOH-OOH-OOH"
"Their looks, pretty dance moves and voices are just bonuses, but when you look through that, you'll see boys who wi "
 This is the price we pay. We all must dance
The Moclans on the dance fooor. I never laughed so hard. TheOrville 
"When Jamaicans keep Barbecues a foreign, a dance dem keep. Food is minimal, liquor nuff and sound string up. Affi put our touch to it."
I'm Never Gonna Dance Again - George Michael  va 
Best rock pop dance music Now The Witch Queen Of New Orleans by Redbone on  
"Yo, why mixx 360 dance floor look like the club in GTA vice city with the people dancing"
One last dance tonight roundthree
If your mom doesnt dance around in the kitchen with a wig on with you on a Friday night then Im sorry your moms l 
Monsta X dance practices will always be superior
The DJ at top golf is really trying to start a dance party
Who was your first crush?  I honestly don't remember  probably some of my dance mentors when I was a kid  
My first baby girl in her production tonight for dance masters placed first place and highest gold and got to excep 
my boss dropped a link to BTS on SNL in our company slack and said in all caps THE BOYS CAN DANCE
 ( RP2001 ) An everyone's favorite girl who can beat your heart with her killing eyes and make amaze with powerful dance.
"

Dance as if no one's watching, sing as if no one's listening, and live everyday as if it were 
your last."
[Fact] Part of the Dance Trio of SNSD with Hyoyeon &amp; Yuri.
" Why am I just seeing this now? 
Im always late to the dance. 
twitter algorithms. "
We need to dance more. Malays obviously suffering from lack of fun and happiness. 
" When he lived in Las Vegas he used the name Sam.
 His nicknames are Jinnie and The Prince.
 He attended SOPA "
"Everybody doing the same exact dance and nothing else, for the entirety of every social event. Bleh"
"   Exactly. Make it crystal clear IN ADVANCE that we know the corrupt, spineless GO "
 I'm getting flashbacks to Mrs Carson's class when someone chose this on repeat for just dance lmaoooo
"dearlymark really said "" blocking spree ! blocking everyone that makes fun of me &amp; lmfaobrooke dance battle """
"Its Zumba Time!
.
.
So dance like nobody is watching 
.
.
Gurukul Activity Centre,Raheja Vihar,Chandivali.
. 
.
 "
"Dance to the beat of a 303? A Roland TB-303 is a baseline synthesizer, not a drum machine. And this song doesnt even have a 303 on it."
11:30 and Im just not making up this dance  goodbye social media. Ive done enough scrolling for the day
single ladies played in the bar and women of every age formed a dance circle. proof that beyonc is our true queen
"I have been listening to their music, watching their mvs, watching their dance practices and their live stages like "
 Jordan Peterson and Zizek had a discussion today. Its so fulfilling to listen to intellectual debate. vs 
Dance party with my sisters and nieces. Music is trap remixes of childrens television theme songs because thats a thing.
how im hitting the dance floor at  s sisters wedding 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"Talking Out Loud:

""The fight is won or lost far away from witnesses  behind the lines, in the gym, and out there "
Who was your first crush?  this boy named nicholas in my reception class. we were partners in our class high five 
"For some of us when we pass from this world to the next God will use his hand to extinguish our flames, letting the "
 Dance to the left to the right You make me feel alive live Wonderful tonight night
"matt healy hizo ms cuando dijo ""if you don't dance i'm walking off stage, you can keep the money, give it to gay p "
"Join our New May 2019 ABSOLUTE BACHATA BEGINNER 4 Week Classes starting from SATURDAY, 4th May and SUNDAY, 5th May "
"British Doctors May Soon Prescribe Art, Music, Dance, Singing Lessons "
"Oh, isn't this exactly where you'd like me 
I'm exactly where you'd like me,
you know Praying for love in a lap dance and paying in naivety"
bruh our dance practice video (1 out of 4 of em) kinda popped off and became our most popular/viral post in less th 
Shout out to my high school swing dance partner who dropped me on my knee so that now I can tell when the humidity 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Honey by Mariah Carey on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Non-Stop
 - Thomas Gold
 "
I have been working on half those tricks for dance for like 2 years and couldnt have pulled off that shit like the 
"sobrang perfect ng bp performance on coachella week 2, i swear!!! the crowd, the outfits, the live vocals, the danc "
Now playing Unconditional by Charles &amp; Eddie music best hits rock pop dance on 
Now I know who to call with that Lawn Mower Dance  
In the middle of the floor you know I like to do my dance 
Im just trying to have a girls night and go dance but my friends either over 21 or busy or have a boo 
 ooh I knew exactly what clip you were talking about before seeing the thumbnail. I have a soft spo 
"   SUPER shy, believe it or not. Dance definitely wasn't one of my focuses when I first s "
imma need more dance vids from ATEEZ and A.C.E thank you and no I don't mean covers I want more choreography you talented dancing bastards
 I'd start doing the old duck dance 
"0955

some familiar faces, the 'hardcore' ones, who would not miss a dance opportunity (specially at this fag end). "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby We All Fall Down (Extended Mix) by Jamie Lidell on 
 The dance moment in this weeks ep?? Like the bit with the twirl/arms??
I WANT TO DANCE THIS !!! 
i want a b*y to slow dance w me all sultry to black madonna .......... gn
break dance time! lol 
"Well, at least they found some use for their feminist dance masters degree. Not that it will pay the bills but stil "
yall my favorite dance team (heaven dance team from vietnam) just slayed their kill this love cover! im crying i lo 
If you didnt sing or get up and dance once watching Homecoming youre a serial killer
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
GhuluMuck Vii: Stage V: Boss Greezers Slime Bot Ticks Attack i on SoundCloud np  music 
"Jealous of my dance moves, huh? "
 I went to that same dance academy a family friend owns it 
Just a perfect 29th birthday treat.
But it made me deeply happy and emotional. And the set! The lighting design! The hunky chorus members!
Theyre playing str* music ok the dance floor. Wut
Im enough of a fan of Anais Mitchell I was mouthing the words during half the songs. Saw it with someone unfamilia 
" Jungkook can dance on my Twitter 
Lmao "
THE DANCE BREAK WITH MINE AND MI GENTE I HAVE TO LEARN THIS I JUST GOTTA
"   The actual school part of it is boring, obviously. . . but I love the friends I've mad "
19.04.19  Sabina liked and commented my dance video on instagram 
"I miss going out and DANCING.
I lived my best turn up life from age 18-21. Sit down?! In a club?! 
FOR WHAT?!?!?!
N "
"Dance little baby and Mother will sing With the merry coal, ding, ding, ding"
MATTY JUST SAID IF YOU DONT DANCE IM WALKING OFF KEEP THE MONEY GIVE IT TO SOME GAY PEOPLE aKDJWOOWIWNW
 Maybe they'll do it sometime in the next 5 years on a random bangtan bomb in the background of someone 
Get ready for some Dance Co pics from the past 30 years! hahsdance30  Can you guess the year? 
"  Well, keep up the happy dance!"
 Cam thank you so much!! Happy to have met you during my first year at dance marathon!! Hope you have a great day!
"All I want is for ATEEZ to go home, rest up, stay in Korea for a while, and release more dance videos where they ha "
"""The Safety Dance"" (1982) by Canadian super-group Men Without Hats. "
"I can't dance for shit, but when a song comes on and I've got a pun, believe you me I'll deliver it even if I have to dance it."
YALL BETTER DANCE
Dance festival competitions to be at held Whanganui Girls College  
  I'm ready to dance 
"When she turned 10, Victoria attended the Beijing Dance Academy where she learned all sorts of dance including ball "
NowPlaying Gotta Have It by  StreamingRadio Radionomy HipHop Soul RnB Dance OldSchool Reggae 
and dance with me?
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Hold On Tight by Electric Light Orchestra on  
Best Friend!!! Highlights!!! The Drums!!! Live At The Chain Reaction!!! 04.02.19   
 Didnt get to dance with that Darth Minion. But its a minion. Kylo 
I love my Dance Rush family DANCERUSH_STARDOM DanceRush drs Chicago 
When it was allllll said..... it was time to boogie!! And even the cop had to get in on the dance!!! We had so much 
We all know if she really did the dance she woulda killed it. But y'all sleep on Keke  
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
glad I found a dance partner for tonight that loves to dance as much as I do
 Cant wait to back dat ass up on you during our first dance
Hallo guys it's me simple dance video so all you  good morning  
 and  BOTH did the cotton eyed joe to a dance and Ive never wanted to kms more.
"Hernando Cavs sharing dance moves with the French team. Go Cavs!!! cavpride 
 "
5 of 5 stars to Grave Dance by Kalayna Price 
"7. Son: Rasputin (Just Dance 2016), Cant break me down (Billy Idol), So in Love (OMD), Comeback (Ssion) y Love song (The Cure)"
"Dancing &amp; spinning across the dance floor with my dad will forever be my most favorite thing to do, swear to it"
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Sound of Silent by Paul Simon on  
nowplaying music radio np The Adventures Of Rain Dance Maggie by Red Hot Chili Peppers  
"Some dance to remember 
Some dance to forget 
Who you are?"
If you're white and you haven't gone to a dance school for at least 3 years just don't 
 Those who seek to herd their fellow man to slaughter through deception and false promise of glory serv 
We should not we should make our own dance and watch them forget they made this and copy us  
"0953

Had it not been for the moonrise, i would not have taken that way yesterday evening and would not have learnt "
How do people be recording they self dance!
Yo  you are really missed on World of Dance. You give the perfect advice to the groups.
"MEET THE BENNY BOPPERS

Watch Amb. Bienvenido Tantoco Sr.'s grandchildren and great grandchildren form themselves i "
Omfg biiiiiiiitch! Find me on the dance floor!!! 
  Same old tiring song and dance. Its all they know
" J-hope~ Smiles alot like everywhere I go i smile for no reason,funny reactions &amp; dances, Jin~ acts li "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Still looking for my KPOP dance crew 
Just saw Hadestown and I wept basically continuously through the second act. Greatest piece of theater Ive seen on Broadway.
22. Helps with SNSD's choreography and often stays behind after her own practise to help the other members. Tiffany 
 Well they didnt win the dance contest.
 So Im like one of the only ones missing this .. sad to miss you smash it and miss my konnectors on the da 
Jamaica Banks Money Music Reggae --&gt; International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving cent 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Infinity 2008
 - Guru Josh
 "
The Israel Collective Dance Video~~~When Gentiles bust a move in Jewish territory it's a sight worth seeing~~~Cause 
 Now that youve tried on the heels....come over to  and dance with us!!
"The fact that Cameron Boyce and Tom Holland can dance, makes them 10 x more attractive"
WE CAN DANCE IN THE FIRE HASTA Q SALGA EL SOL BURNING UP WITH DESIRE SOLITOS TU Y YO 
 Hai... happy weekend king of dance JHOPE 
 I heard Soulmate this morning (because Jonathan Van Ness did his coffee dance to it on insta lmao) 
 Kirain shut up and dance with me
We had such an amazing weekend at the Father-Daughter dance at Lincolnwood and the Purdue Northwest softball game. 
Who was your first crush?  definitely madonna when i was like 6 i'd dance around the living room in my little merm 
"I like the standing one for us for dancing  Mr. Lee !!

Weeee !! Road trip with music !!

I'll jump &amp; you catch me "
I dance to my own beat
 that tRAFFIC LIGHT DANCE..?? WOW
Im trying to dance with somebody at next years Coachella
My old dance instructor asked me you stopped dancing? I said yea I gave that one up and she said not even a st 
I wanna thank you guys so much for a LIT evening raising funds for  - making blindfold myself and then 
"We are sponsoring  Queer , 4/20 vouge event. If ya miss us at  come dance and smoke with P "
Baby love the dance in the dark
 I just want you to dance with me tonight.
" i loved ""Trouble in Paradise"" so much!!! i even choreographed a short dance  for ""Only You""!! :)"
no i didnt just choreograph an entire contemporary dance in my head that jimin could do to this song 
"Hello  , please do a naruto cosplay for Dionysus dance practice , pretty please  thanks"
"EVERYBODY DANCE NOW!
The Christopher Walken Dance Thread 

Christopher Walken ~ Dance Now  via "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Dance of the Fairelanders 
Best rock pop dance music Now Mexerico Da Candinha by Wilson Simonal on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Pia Colada Boy by Baby Alice on  
" Well, listening right now to a playlist of her set list for her Honey tour. Didn't know who she was un "
  get yerself up and do the Fan Dance...Get some air in your London Lungs
Was the Ricky Bobby a dance? 
"The older I get, the more I dance like a Latino Dad. Everything is the Salsa for some reason"
"Mountain Dew, Doritos
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 The end of all things"
Newsl  K media article on Twitters official account replying This is the Tweet to a Jungkook focus video of 
Who was your first crush?  a girl in my dance studio but i didn't realise it at the time lmao i thought i just tho 
 SAME!!!! I CANT WAIT TO DANCE Y TODO
i gotta learn how to dance tho
"  As a former contact lens wearer, I totally get this. I once froze an entire disco dance floor w "
 If I listen to them in the shower Id be trying to do the dance moves and Ill end up slipping and dying
Enjoy with the best music all over the world. Now playing Stolen Dance by Milky Chance on 
 Where is that dance thing from? 
"just like this..the big big beat
dance to the big big beat
just like this..the 1-2, ah
dance to the big big beat
ju "
"My favourite scene from Danger MV is this! 
You can see the SuperJuniorDnE and the dancers in their dance formati "
"Flip flopping again, eh Mittens?

First you dance along his every obtuse word, now you're ""sickened?"" "
"so we like the way we dance baby
when the notes come to you"
  Because he can dance 
" Exid Boy, Cream, 4 minute - Dream Racer, Pristin - Black Widow, F(x) - Cash me out, All mine, H.U.B - Fina "
"ISC is a combination of working years of activities where through dance, music, poetry, food, and spirituality peop "
" Dance: How about Shadow Flame I think that's a cool name

Sally: Really now about Nocturnal 

Music: Shad "
Say goodbye  as we dance with the devil tonight dont dare look him in eyes as we dance with the devil tonight
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
She could dance to any genre of music tbh 
just finished watching homecoming by Beyonc who wants to take hip hop dance classes with me pronto
"SAEBOM FANCAM

(WARNING!! FLASHING IMAGERY) 

Cover Girl - Rupaul

Saebom  rupaul nature  dance "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Stanly Clark &amp; George Duke / Heroes by Various Artists on 
   No worries. Just dont want you to feel alone. I ALWAYS keep my promises. Love my trance sis. 
I need a mans to drunk dance with me to Billy Joel
"I ain't gonna lie... I like watching Colombians dance pop, hip-hop, reggaeton, dancehall etc.... It's like white pp "
Its Saturday 4/20/19! Join me 8:30am at Millennium!GetDrenched DrenchedStrong @ Millennium Dance Complex 
Slow dance to rock music
Yeah sex is cool but have you ever taken off your heels after a dance???
Got dance break as well
"NEW YT VIDEO
Im trying to bring back Fortnite innocence one dance at a time
 "
 ur so sweeT omg my heart  and YEAH id love to be friends !! i love talking about dance so !! &lt;3
Just Dance VIBES-LIVE RADIO  Thanks for keeping the Vibes-Live!  THANKS FOR KEEPING THE VIBES-LIVE
 Or when your mom tells you you don't need a bra and your dress shifts on the dance floor and your 
"if youre walking on thin ice, ya might as well dance"
I was chubby back in the day and was fucking it up on the dance floor . I can only imagine what Im working wit now.
  LA Lisa. You can watch dance solo stage of Lisa. Swalla or Taki Taki
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Misirlou by Dick Dale &amp; The Del-Tones on 
I need to dance
"I wanna begin doing dance covers and original freestyle vids. I'm tired of putting it off: before the month is up, "
"In reference to a tornado warning in her area, Im freaking out. The only thing I ever want to see rotating is a** "
12:21am &amp; Im getting taught how to dance..
I NEED SEVERAL PACKS OF THIS ASAP 
"You are filled to the brim with dad jokes and mediocre dance moves, and overflowing with kindness and love. Thank y "
Digital Underground - Humpty Dance (Official Music Video)  via 
Let's go baby and dance now Family Affair by Nate James on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Stanly Clark &amp; George Duke / Heroes by Various Artists on 
This Is All I Do All Day Everyday love It  Dance Dance FolloMe BestLife   
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Be Somebody
 - Steve Aoki &amp; Nicky Romero
 "
"I was the second highest score for the test in my class today 
*happy tap dance"
 Loved the umbrella prop we used for what she called dance parties. I still think she was disappointed 
  And she can dance too. 
"If you could workout with anyone who would it be?

Tag your workout buddy or someone who you want to make gainz wit "
"I swear to god, I think the only reason I like getting victory royales is so I can troll/dance on their corpse afte "
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
Bruce Springsteen - Save The Last Dance For Me (Live Albany 2014) HD Pro...  via 
" ""Hahahha! Eron come!! Dance with me!!"" 

Called out the playful woman, breaking free from the boiste "
"When I tried to open the back door, I pushed it to open, only to find it was locked. Then there was my dumb fucking "
Im at this party full of developers and all they want to talk about is code.. all I want to do is dance
Swear to god the most ridiculous shit replays in my head. Like right now all I can think about is the Napoleon dyna 
"My son did a flip right when I turned the  off. Dance off
Wataburgermasscott "
 Are we seeing the same thing? Because Jeno knows how to dance and quite well I might add 
   Dance off
ive thought of sending  my jason derulo pc that i got from the shut up and dance album.. but she also kno 
   If you cross here ILLEGALLY then yes you are a criminal. Again you dont 
NYC FLASH MOB! Its time to register and learn the choreography because I WANNA DANCE WITH SOMEBODY !!!!!! 
Midnight Dance Night eggdrp loola 
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by 
 Star-Lord tries the Dance off thing again.
"Children are fighting on the TL. I should go ""break"" it up. Let them ""dance"" it out and make up."
Add this dance in the next battle pass  
party rock anthem has activated the dance circle
The unions have stated they want death duties. Unions get what unions want &amp;Bill  being a union puppet  will dance 
Finishing New videos Tonight I dance better when I been stressed 
Jumee  returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
"mayhaps i learnt the boy with luv dance,,,,"
"Race against time, ShotClock yah, Issa VYB! 

Didnt get all the dance moves on point, but proud of myself for k "
  Do they dance to Jodeci too? Love this idea though.
"Hyderabad
Tonight Transitions with the legend  &amp;  
Tickets - 
See "
" Don't worry, you don't transform into a full weeb till you do the Haruhi dance."
Hi there! We're now playing Mr Peach - Let's Dance (Original Peach Mix) ...... catch our Online Station on 
"  You know I've officially reached that age where I will dance and sing to anything, so wear y "
 That dance tho  I cant
IM SO READY TO DANCE MY ASS OFF AT PROM TOMORROW
 Lets dance in this misery
Who was your first crush?  The first I remember was a kid named Seth I looked him up on fb he is now a hip hop dan 
"visit  
 Now Playing Meghan Trainor - Can't Dance"
And she had Alzheimers. You can tell that when she said Steve? Youre alive?? It broke her heart. She never stop 
SHE DOESNT EVEN BOTHER TO LEARN THE DANCE WITH ONE OF THE EASIEST CHOREOS 
That shoulder dance idris Elba did on boasty  what cant he do ! ?
 me too like KJDDJSKDK remember when taewoo ended up ranking at the last opposite to jinseok and we found ou 
I watched Chewbacca sexy dance to Tenacious D Fuck Her Gently tonight. I can just go ahead and die now. Im happy. 
Time to drink champagne and dance on the table tshirt  
"My love will always be with dance music, but sometimes you have to play other genres to pay the bills ~B~"
Just one more dance?
" Sorry Anna, but talking is a free action. We've seen this song and dance time after time. They always g "
" After having to watch the Bonnie/Analiese dance o'depression (and awful guys), it's just nice to ship s "
"BTS - Fake Love - Kpop Dance in Public   
Qpark FakeLove bts BTS"
JugandoAhora @ IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey Dance  - Ideal Music 0008 
I just wanna dance with somebody
" i missing you so much thank u so much for your beautiful, cute,innocent, prettiest,handsome pic...my dance "
Seeing some highlights from NHL playoffs is serious warning to the HABS: Size is a massive factor in those physic 
"CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (WAND) Champaign-Urbana locals who have had enough of street violence came together in search of pe "
" i if see anyone doing that like when bananas would conga at the start of the season, i would dance with "
        
omg i hope yall know im talking abt his lil dance not the rap like
 HOLY SHIT SHES FROM THE LAB!!! THEY WERE ON WORLD OF DANCE!!!! Their dance to Cold Water literally m 
I can't wait until I make  and  do the Get Me Bodied dance with me at my wedding while we yell 
"anyone: you look familiar
me: like your dead girlfriend only when you smile but im sure ive seen you someone whe "
" Nahhhh dudes they were with couldnt dance either so they were perfect for each other, no need for me to intervene lol."
Now playing: Wildlife Refugee - Western Dance 
can i just say.. hobi's chill dance moves are the hardest choreography for me 
........i just want someone i can sip and dance around the spot with singing and dancing to old school R&amp;B
   Dance on a table at 3333
I just want to go out and dance
"To ball like Wall, boy you gotta do the dance"
"Poppin John's ""Painting Greys"" Is Shockingly Emotional - World of Dance ...  via 

D "
It was our first dance at the rehearsal studio so we thought wed make it our last dance! Love you  &amp; t 
 You too! And theyll be in the dance next year
Hey  ! So remember that Lets Dance stream the criticalrole cast did years ago cause GS made a bunch of 
"If you cant dance and/or turn up to any typa music playin , sorry to tell you but you not black........"
what a night for a dance you know I'm a dancing machine
Barry Blue - Do You Wanna Dance
Midnight Dance Night eggdrp loola 
"Cute lil lady: Come dance with me!

Me: Oh, I dont do that. Im 6 foot. 

Lady: No youre not! Stand up. 
...oh shit."
Why didn't the skeleton dance at the Halloween party?  He had no body to dance with!
i never go to the club with anyone who wants to dance and go dumb 
""" I don't need god because I'm I like to sin and dance and say swears"" StuffSinnersSay"
Dancing With The Stars except I'm the star and nobody wants to dance with me
"Hey ARMYY 
I just wanted to know, what's the first song and video that makes you stan BTS??
For me it's I NEED U and I NEED U DANCE PRACTICE"
SOUND ON  my new joint Ghost Dance dropped today as part of the insanely dope EARTH NIGHT compilation raising 
 I've been watching their dance practice videos and so far I like Starry Night. Still doing my research about them. 
My dance friends when i tell them my bf cant make it to recital 
   Because someone he knows now its Trumps fault? He knows thousands of peo 
the dance floor s i l l y
" but i can't dance
and i can't sing"
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
"Watching homecoming and the 14 year old in me keeps whispering in my head, ""learn all the dance moves, white girl"" tooolddontworry"
When people do the 'everybody mad' dance with a group of people I just wanna be a fly on the wall when the decision 
"well in my very humble opinion, I rlly think dua lipa and paul klein are meant for each other, y? coz both of their song makes me dance haha"
"MEET THE BENNY BOPPERS

Watch Amb. Bienvenido Tantoco Sr.'s grandchildren and great grandchildren form themselves i "
"Now it has all the power of a Pearl and Garnet's super gay fusion dance, we have to destroy it."
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Problems
 - Petit Biscuit Ft. Lido
 "
your best dance songs go:
"I wanna dance with somebody 
Lady bird 
The final three episodes of avatar the last airbender "
A man can never find the best Digital Video LED Dance Floor Pixel 64 if he never try. 
They feel so far from me today.. I wish I could dance with them.
 He needs to dance with Twitch on Ellen!
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  JSO dancehalllink  reggaemusic reggae dancehall
Honestly this moment brought me back to when me and  used to dance in living room  ISSA sista thing ! 
 Dance instructor? You sure you dont need to take the call?
guitar lesson or dance workshop?
Why would they ever play my sound when my dance partner  not around
I would dance very poorly if I were dead. Leading is really a pain in the ass.
Jungkook cna dance on my way 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock T.S.O.P. by M.F.S.B. on 
I finally got the boy with luv dance choreo
"  0/ Thank-You for da Home Game Win!!! 
We BeatTheBlazers in da NBAPlayoffs
 "
"Have you DANCED recently?
If so, you should definitely DANCE if you want to,
and if you DANCE, then surely you must be a friend of mine!"
 Ikr the breeze I felt was not because of my sick dance moves :/
 Yeah bc its like look i get it.. it rubbed me wrong the dance is being done but i wouldnt have spazzed like that
"YOOOOU CAN DANCE
YOOOOU CAN JIIIVE
HAVING THE TIME OF YOUR LIIIFE"
I'm very clear that doing the Carlton dance is important to the bourgeoisie
" I love you because it goes beyond a beautiful face, you dance fucking, sing beautifully, it's smart an "
I tried to learn boy with luv dance but it's STILL HARD even when its clearly easier than their usual dance lemme j 
" Tbh the Twice line up should just go:
- Main Vocals: Jihyo &amp; Nayeon
- Lead Vocals: Jeong &amp; Chae
- Mai "
Days!!! Highlights!!! The Drums!!! Live At The Chain Reaction!!! 04.02.19   
" I'm a bit of each member but mostly my im my bias type I get upset easily, I can't sleep without hugg "
"Mel' Guest showcase!
Shirudan + Ryota from Janish "
How great is it when Pton community groups collaborate? 5/3 Formal in Casablanca  for adults &amp; teens w special nee 
i have an overwhelming urge to fortnite dance to bullet by hollywood undead and all i have to say on behalf of my dumb sad ass is YIKES
Im on my second Red Bull AND HOLY SHIT I wanna DANCE!!!
  I've become a fun since he dance park bo gum boombastic dance . Hes' so cute and good a 
" Then its a date. Youll show me your little world, hmm? He mused, taking in his scent and simply f "
. playing Cotton Eyed Joe always reminds me of when Andrew would dance at every game. Probably be weird f 
" ""Nah, it's probably just my dance instructor,"" she grinned."
 Hey I just realized who you are . Hi Jennifer my fellow dance mom
 Valentine's day in a dance club I was in college married the following June 22 yrs ago June 6th
"Song and dance from Jimmy, lol yaaassss"
  Having a man who knows how to dance will always be sexier than a man whos best ability is ho 
 idk if this means flossing teeth or the dance move but either way Im crying
 You see the fan do Lillard's dance?
 Dance Rehearsal Gone Bad
 lets take a hip hop dance class to beyonc im so hype rn
"Join me This Tuesday Evening ( Tuesday,  April 23 2019) and Every Tuesday Evening on  for So "
"Let's sing together

Dance With My Father "
Let me stop &amp; do my dance
Best rock pop dance music Now It's My Time by Dolly Parton on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Maniac by Michael Sembello on  
 stfu you can dance you're not part of this tweet
Dumbass dance
their cute little dance and probably mj showing sanha a strand of his eyelashes  
"I had better acquainted with his own, a dance,"" said to go away, when you had some want of wishing they contained within"
"It's April 20, 2019 at 12:15AM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
Be a hippie hung trees dance naked in the forest. 
"This whole ""woah"" dance needs to stop before the eradication starts"
I aint realize raz b could dance so well
"   That would be AMAZING, as soon as I heard the song I could see a fun dance / par "
I dont really dance I be jiggin
"Who say Stretching is easy

stretch yoga fitness flexibility workout stretching gym flexible fit "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Back To Life (However Do You Want Me) by Soul II Soul on 
"Work like you don ' t need the money , love like you' ve never been
hurt and dance like no one is watching ."
the things i do when im bored. i saw this dance pop up on my insta so i tried it 
 3RD NIGHT IN A ROW TO DANCE QUIETLY IN MY ROOM TO DIONYSUS AND BWL AT NOON HOPING MY PARENTS DONT REALISE 
 these old folks are about hi have a blast creating a line dance to that 
"Did you ever
Dance around the park and let it all go?
Did you make a video
Instead of writing your show?"
 IM LISTENING @ JUST DANCE RN AND YOU POSTED?! WHATTA FATE
Ima dance around in the kitchen ALWAYS while cooking.
"Tonight was my friend's Mehndi party, beautiful traditions and the dance floor was LIT when they mix Indian/Latin songs "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Cantaloupe Island by Herbie Hancock on  
Drove along the river with the Parkinson's guy this afternoon. Along the way we passed the Emerald Dance Center. St 
"Sometimes, you are just so excited about next week that you have to dance!  FallonTonight "
"PostNigeriaEnt || Wizkid's First Son Boluwatife Gives Some Mad Zanku Moves .

VISIT  "
  Which is incredibly ironic considering the safest place for gold rush era gold dust and n 
"Women's Dance Aerobics, Apr 20 @ Boiler House Community Centre,  adults aerobics dance "
 I cant decide if I wanna dance to it at my wedding or have it played at my funeral
 she can't even dance properly! Must say lots of blinks are better than her. Justice for my dalla dalla lmao 
" Lmao. It's only temporary sha, don't dance too much"
   No just because a woman is with children doesnt mean they are hers. How very ignorant! Smh
" Rita as Terpsichore, one of the 9 Muses &amp; Goddess of Dance. Down to Earth - 1945. Ha-Ha sorry I coul "
"Why they look like a family that would dance the streets during the purge?
godblessourfoundingfathers "
Thunder win and now its time for the  post game victory dance!  ThunderUp
Id love to watch you dance
Unnerving words and how they like to dance around in my mind.
 Just dance
 Save me a dance
 I LOVE YOU OUR DANCE KING !!!
"Official photography, on March 31, 2019.
Kuchipudi : Shweta Nayak.
At Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academi, Thrissur.
In "
"Get Be With You on  web site. A Dance tune that is bopping.

DragRace GoodFriday FridayFeeling "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Shimmy Shaker
 - La Fuente
 "
"Something different than fear , creating the way you think girlsjustwannahavefun inure Summer"
I dont think Ive ever talked to a guy that actually knows how to dance 
   More stupidity. Our borders need to be secure. PERIOD. Everyone needs to 
Please kindly to check out my new dance cover BLACKPINK -  AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST thank you!    JISOO
Now playing Rollin' On Chrome + by Kruder &amp; Dorfmeister music best hits rock pop dance on 
one time at like 4 am when i was basically high i tried to learn the dance to lilili yabbay
" bro no one can be bts. bts are bts and nct are nct. they are TOTALLY different groups, if you havent not "
When you have space to dance  &gt;
"MOOD
ON THE DANCE FLOOR w/   :  
jamesbrown music jazzdance dance "
" Lyric: ....ok I'm grateful for them

Music: Why don't she name her now or is she still banned from seeing "
 Sure appears like it. Heavy teams win in the playoffs. Were built to dance to 50 wins but cant cut it in tough games
Yall really get on my nerves with this dance beef. The people that are really passionate about their craft stay out the way &amp; work.
DO YOU DO DANCE CRAZY WHEN NO ONE IS LOOKING?  WHO DOESNT  
  Yall better dance to this old shit
"We cant wait to meet our 2019/2020 CREW!
AUDITIONS ARE SUNDAY MAY 5 10am Centre for Dance!!! Register on our websi "
 first dance
honestly being able to see dance Gavin dance Live whenever I can  makes me remember how from the first time I ever 
"yep its been decided, we will dirty dance at my wedding"
 the dance move at the end really ate sis 
"I tried to get my sis to do the dance moves to ""Everybody Mad"" she acting like she can't knowing she can.  I can o "
" Oh, sounds like a Fleshman vs Baker dance off is necessary.   "
"Monroe, why u doing dribble dance like duo serigala 
"
"  when will America wake up- LEO is not your friend, these clown cops who dance and buy "
Friday and sitting at home alone. I really think people in our 50s should be more proactive in going out and being 
 I say bullshit. ScoMo is leading you on a merry dance where he calls the shots and feeds the chooks on the bus.
Mary janes last dance
  i know her !! She attends dance classes of a famous male choreographer I met who is Mat 
Wonder if my old dance sisters want to kick off a dance off . Just in the studio dancing all day 
Uhm since bighit always post videos of bts dance practice can they also post a video of  practicing/learning 
"i want noiz to do the robot
and i dont mean the dance"
i did a happy dance afterward... 
Lookin at a nigga wit ya palm out..BITCH I aint even see you dance! 
Dance lovers have you been tuning in? Be sure to turn your radio dial to  every Wednesday at 9:00 a.m. to 
That fire ass food make people dance
"Filling up fast at The Piazza! Dance floor is ON FIRE to the best Salsa, Bachata, Merengue, Cumbia and Cha Cha on t "
"Oh.Em.Gee. Orchesis Dance Company, Arcadia High School, what a show!!!! I am so impressed and am so glad they dont "
Mr. brightside is actually a traumatic ass song if u think about it but we all have to sing along and dance to it o 
I wanted a last dance with you :/ guess not
What to say if being reclusive is the only way! Sia - Eye of the Needle (VIDEO)  via 
I want to go to a dance class  I havent danced since my majorette days....
"We'll kiss and tremble with the delight
Everything is fine with the devil in the details
We're gonna dance with him tonight"
I just wrote a review on Ella Fit Moonstone Dance Tee  via 
Posted    Posted    Our AMAZING Student Council is hostin 
"Imagine if  does dance like this in 'Make it Right' song, would you all still alive?

"
Justin dance like he playing Just Dance on the wii.
start your day by watching the best cover dance of wow by post malone 
Guys I went to dance class today for the first time in two years and I am so in love
Watching white women dance off beat to 2000s hits is the best entertainment i could for ask for right now lol
"Original Chill/House Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


House ChillOut Dance Radio
Music "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : You Don't Love Me &amp;40;No, No, No&amp;41;
 - Sidney Samson And Skitzofrenix Ft. Lady Bee
 "
" But I thought you can dance if you want to, you can leave your friends behind....."
" I dont think politicians should ever dance. Id also add to that list, sit on merry go rounds as well "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino That's Just The Way It Is by Phil Collins on  
Best rock pop dance music Now High Energie by Evelyn Thomas on  
"Orginal Chill/House Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Electronic Electro Easylistening "
Listening to music is a great way to destress! Lets put some on and dance!
I REMEMBER THEIR BE NATURAL DANCE. They were slick there ma. best irene x seulgi collab during trainee days 
"Now on Swing &amp; Blues Radio: Let's Face the Music and Dance
by Nat King Cole
at 00:11:24
"
I DONT GIVE A FUCK ALL I WANNA DO IS DANCE
" Seonghwa is such a biaswrecker. I do find it hilarious that he produces the sexiest dance of the ""sexy da "
"I need Koreans teacher to upload BWL cover dance or just reaction vid when they see Bangtan choreo : ""Come be My Teacher""

"
tonight someone danced super close to me and idk whether it was because they wanted to get past me or because they 
Apink - Nonono dance cover by Awhite 
It ain't easy to dance and sing a whole song when incomplete and do changes on stage blockings but OT4 still manage 
" I mean best believe my man and i do both, but having a man who knows how to actually dance rather than jus "
I JUST SAW MY LITTLE BROTHER DO THE BOY WITH LUV DANCE SHAHSJSGSJSGIM SCREAMINGGEJSGSSH
Im ready to hit a dance floor. In need of a dance partner
    Still love to watch Tony dance!    FeedYourFandomEntry
"Lots off fun dance  
ShaktiArora shaktains "
  Today is a beautiful day gents. Let us be friends and dance around the fire... Oh wait the fire is out. Flames
"Original DeepHouse Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


DeepHouse Instrumental Indie
Music "
My favorite part about working in a middle school is how 80% of the students do this funky little dance when they t 
 what the demon in my room sees when i do kpop random dance
 Baby listen. This shit right CHERE. When you do your big event please invite me. I just wanna hug and sing and dance with you.
Havent danced full out in forever . Think its about that time to get back in somebody dance studio 
ready 2 drink n dance n cry 
"Original DeepHouse Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


DeepHouse Instrumental Electronnic "
I cant dance salsa!!! But i lvoe my culture lol
"FosseVerdonFX  talent,lives and wonder. Never heard of either one but now I am so intrigued and saddened.  Wow wow "
"   Neal's team made the dance. That they suck at dancing . . . well, it's historic."
"QRTing this again 'cause I showed this to my sister &amp; she was amazed that ONF can dance like this...
Check it out i "
  Veep doing happy dance.....awaiting fitting of Putins hand up his ass.
BUT WHAT IF. boy with luv dance practice with halsey
welcome to 12:00 big boss/venom snake hours where im simply careening around my living room thinking about ahab hel 
We still have a chance. But we cant dance around it anymore. This might be our last chance.
"Thanks to ""My Little Pony- Rainbow Dash Explicit"" my daughter now hums and sings to The Offsprings (You're Gonna Go "
April 20th. First day of the year that I broke a sweat on the rover dance floor.
"Kept declining a dudes offer to dance with me and he looked at me and goes are you taken? 

Like no mf I will nev "
The Royal Family dropped another dance video. BRB
The MVP can dance all he wants lol !!!!! 
"NoeL Mode Expansion Song ""courage""
Original And Remix Soundcloud Playlist Enjoy!



EDM "
He was Mick Jagger before Mick Jagger. Dance 
I could make you dance if you want me to 
Mary Jane's Last Dance - Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
" Buffalo Gals, won't you come out tonight,
Come out tonight, come out tonight.
Buffalo Gals, won't you c "
"What is your favorite dance genre?

"
"Original Trance/Techno Pop Song Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
Congrats  Your blog has been selected as one of the Top 15 Swing Dance Blogs on the web by  
" Nope, the Malawian guys that taught her the dance step for her who runs the world video, had no idea s "
"  Im really the weirdo here , like what inspires me to make these shitty lil videos . I cant dance !"
"We plan to dance all weekend on dance floors with personalized printing! 

Dance Floor Vinyl with print, decor "
Our next dance  
Wherever Zach is tell him he has an honorary lap dance waiting for him
Can we dance on the floor in the round
 Ill trash them chicks ina dance off
This is how me and Billie make paityn dance  
Some girl just came up too me and wanted to dance and I just stood there asking my mom to help me 
"Original Techno Short Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Synth Music Indie "
"SAT - 200417 - 0937

Epic Night, yesterday.

The dancing stopped (for 2018-19 season) at the same place, where it s "
 LMAO dance life 
"Original Minimal Techno Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Minimal Electronic "
Vinylmoverz - Be my Lover (Just Dance Euro Club Mix)
4/20 weed number smoke weed marijuana juul drugs dont do drugs kids kids fortnite default dance video games Minecr 
Im in my act I wanna dance 
"Watching white people dance live is so fascinating  almost like watching a car wreck but with booze, rock music, an "
" Not when I was there  dance team did the best out of all the sports, maybe besides swimming..."
"Original Minimal Techno Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Minimal Electronic "
"If you wanna dance, clap ya hands. "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Can't we drop our worries and dance in the rain
"Original Techno Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Synth Electro Mix
Electronic "
i have a personal connection to let's dance so that's 3rd on my list although i don't think it's his 3rd best album.
"Piscean94 Instagram: Zatiana94 FeatureMe Dance
LiveMe-Live broadcasting community "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Happy Birthday by Altered Images on  
"Original Techno Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Instrumental Club Music "
Lmfaoooo I love dance offs!!!! Don't make me go in 
"StaysOpenUp - i know this might sound insensitive but, my bestfriend has this problem with self confidence. kids o "
You all need to get your little behinds to Theatre Buford and see Footloose!!  got to dance a killer tra 
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : This is Tech Radio Mix March 2019 by hannesbruniic Listen again or download  
I said dance bitch!!! dodgers    hadersgonnahate 
"Original 90s Rave Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Rave Electronic Electro Club Party "
This song is playing: Martin Jensen - Solo Dance Listen: 
Does anyone wanna come over and drink and dance w me lol
And dance.
 and dance with me hehehe
      At least we can dance on both legs unlike McDavid
On air : Stitches Shawn Mendes on  dance
"Original 90s House Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


House Instrumental Electro 90s "
some ugly journalist called Lisas dance boring bitch ur gonna get fired in a week xx
"MY 45 PAGE CARE PLAN IS DONE!
Whew *happy dance*"
This is probably my favourite routine by a group and yes thats Kiel starting of the dance in the middle  &gt;&gt;&gt; 
        
"""Shocking cost to the economy"" means that big business earns slightly lower profits when their employees have paid "
Do your dance its your birthday 
This is what happens when you dance with the devil
Let's go baby and dance now Riptide by Vance Joy on  
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : This is Tech Radio Mix March 2019 by  Listen again or download 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Munequita Linda
 - Juan Magn Ft. Deorro, MAKJ, YFN Lucci
 "
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Here You Come Again by Dolly Parton on  
Ion even dance but ill buss a lil jig
"Holy shmokes! The  show at MGM Grand was phe.nom.e.nal!  Like, dance-your-face-off good. No wonder th "
Summer Camp culmination was conducted at Phoenix Arena. We would like to extend our gratitude to our parents for gr 
 Oh my bad! I forgot to write before that part that I get bullied for shaking my Anus! Meaning that I 
nah im crying the girl who had a child and didnt dance for a year and now shes apart of beychella like thats so damn beautiful
"Technotronic - Pump Up The Jam (Just Dance 1)

"
I got people on set to dance to Old Town Road. I feel purpose in my life once again 
Lols yey...the dance 
I -I think Im gonna get the 3racha and dance line clear pcs 
"Anyone trynna dance w me tonight?? And by anyone I mean strictly girls, I am a good time "
 Omgoodness I know her! Been watch her dance for years 
"""I hope he buys you flowers, I hope he holds your hand
Give you all his hours when he has the chance
Take you to ev "
" As Ive heard it, Darrell Royal was once asked why he continued running the wishbone late in a game "
"An elegant dance of colour &amp; shape; all sizes &amp; shades in harmony  I call this ""Geometrix"". 

daretobexklusif  "
"No dragqueen:

Straight white girl: OMG ILL DANCE AND DO THIS NUMBER WITH YOU ON STAGE!! 

drag dragqueen goawaybecky"
"Silvestre Technique &amp; Orixas Movements with verapassos3 
Amazing class Thank you afro.braziliandance_dc and Vera Pa "
"Honkbarn is an animated series created by Kelowna-based studio, Yeti Farm. Help bring the lovable creatures of Honk "
His dancing is not the only thing that makes such a difference in the neighborhood  the type of person he is engagi 
"Highlights Of TheHangout PartyOfTheLife LIVe Party!!! 

Music: Work It Out By  

DJ Gospel Party "
" Yeah, I love Bonos little dance at the beginning  I also love when Edges future wife dances to Mysterious ways "
 Dance for a pay rise
his little run and laugh at the beginning + the little dance omg and joons laugh in the background  
"The Perfect Date is such a cliched and predictable movie, like who is this even made for? It's straight up the exac "
tweet 7 my dogs dont like when i get high and dance around in my underwear :  (
Save The Last Dance is so nostalgic
Best Online Pole Dancing Lessons For Home | Pole Dance FitnessOasis  
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Dirty Ol' Man by The Three Degrees on  
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
" Darling, i want to dance with you tonight."
 Oh snap he stared the dance party without me
 My brother and I really resonated with Rin and Len (butterfly on my right shoulder live version omG their 
" Jeez, I had completely forgotten him. Remember the memes on him. Two words: Gangnam dance!"
If you cant dance sit these two songs out please. 
Hope cant do much but she gon DANCE TODAY!!!  
Trying to draft some slides but watching kpop dance covers instead 
" New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all "
This guy asked me to dance with him and I said I had bad knees 
Someone teach me how to salsa dance
Might fuck around and dance caballo dorado to a Kacey Musgraves song
"I can see why  it's called the
 Hawaiian procreation dance "
My old dance videos make me cringe so hard man
The ultimate Friday Dance. 
" this me

pls watch my dance video  "
  can dance 1000 times better than this Chump.
"No Billie, I havent done that dance since my wife died"
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Everyday by Phil Collins on  
"Alternative dance group Rfs Du Sol: be kind to yourself, be kind to your neighbor, and dance like nobody is watch "
"My favorite Dancer!

JADE CHYNOWETH | Britney Spears-Show Down | Choreography by Jojo Gomez &amp; Marissa Heart Dance "
watching a room of tipsy people try and fail to dance to YMCA shouldnt be so amusing but when most of them are my family members IT IS
 We were at this 80s bar dancing and now going to another bar but its not a dance bar :(
why are people so serious oHhHhHh my gODDdddd have some fun jeez life is super short my guy ur gonna be dead in 50 
"Watched Kanchana3 good movie, not scary like other parts but had good emotional content.  acting and dance "
Shaq doing the Blueface buss down dance  
So thats why I dance soo good 
"Tonight, I was going through pictures &amp;  videos that were sent to me on our wedding day that I hadnt seen. I found "
" nako- love whisper high note
hitomi- her dance power
yena- the moment i laid eyes on her "
Update for potential members! We now have someone referencing as Mia for Bon Bon Chocolat which means we just need 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Come Back To Me
 - Kenn Colt + Nari + Milani
 "
" ANITA IS MY FAVORITE CHARACTER

""America"" is the best, and she's full of sarcasm, and trash talk, and "
Best rock pop dance music Now A Horse With No Name by America on  
 still doesnt have dance moms and im bothered.
" Web me mamma....Alternatively, you've been invited to her spider dance, spider dance, spider dance, "
"everytime you dance with somebody
i want you to feel me"
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"Ready sketchy baser, run life's moon. Gotta yell and dance ""Oh, hey now!"""
watching people dance at coachella is comedy. yall rhythm illiterate.
  didnt know you could dance like that LMFAO
when someone tries to dance w/ you &amp; you bust out the 2 step .. slideee to the fkn left !!
 P.s. if you ever go to LA you have to try the dance nights at The Satelite. 
"PRECURESong for you, Let's dance Fresh PreCure"
 the way i dance to dumb dumb in my sleep 
"That awkward moment when someone asks you to dance, but its a 60-something year old guy  I said no and he sto "
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
Her blonde hair knows how to dance toooo ahhhhh   BLACKPINK ROS BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 
 Busy in these days with drama and also working on Bold dance scenes
"Hope a garden grows, where we dance this afternoon."
"[Fact]
Luhan was a dance mentor with GOT7s Jackson on a Chinese tv show Hot Lood Dance Crew and his team (with J "
nothing more rewarding than dancing with my friends on the main events stage at tekko2019 dance jpop cherrsee 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Law by Yo Gotti Feat. E-40 on  
We are so proud of Ally for making the Varsity Golden Girls Dance Team. Her work ethic and dedication to achieving 
"This is my dream.. 

It is iKON fanmeeting, and I'm one of those fans that are lucky to dance with them in stage. S "
nts: never dance without shoes on 
 The fact that you don't know who dance Gavin dance is tells me that you are genetically inferior
" Wow, it is quite entertaining watching you and the Right dance to protect tbis idiot. Let me remind yo "
"""Shall we dance?"" -Laslow"
"   You know what makes me sick, Mike? You masquerading  as a ""Christian"" as y "
I just want to dANCE
God bless Solange for coming out to dance bc Beyonce is TIREDT bitch lmfoaozuis. Bey was like alright its time for 
"life is a sexy little dance, and I like to take the lead "
SKAM4SKAM skam4skam WEIRD ASS DANCE TRAX WITH DJ PRIMO  TONIGHT! APRIL 19th AT THE KNOCKOUT W/ guest D 
Feeling dance nostalgia.... miss you all Marlene Borras Amanda Grace Yongue Courtney Stadius Camelo Gina Pierce Nat 
BRAND NEW DANCE VIDEO Epic Mickey OST Mean Street Paint DANCE VIDEO 
"so im ready to dance to boy with luv and cry over dionysus at noon for third night in a row 
BTSCOMEBACK "
"Me he venido arriba  AldeaTwitter hipster
There's a dark part of town where the girls get down
And I cannot wai "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Ants in my pants and I need to dance Ants in my pants and I need to dance Now get on up
"RWILKMVA75

I love when you dance, you're so adorable"
no matter what you sing I will love it and my ass will dance and my tears will flow with joy  
Ready to dance with 19-Twenty nff2019 fivedaysinaperfectworld 
Have we figured out the dance to Before I Let Go yet? HOMECOMING 
Epic Mickey OST Mean Street Paint DANCE VIDEO  via 
One time Soleil tried to dance and she ended up breaking 20 toes. Hers and mine.
7 rings ArianaGrande Dance kpop 7RINGS Dancer free Korean auditions 
"  they are the ""dance like no one's watching"" animal. they don't give a fuuuuck"
i know the dance rehearsals was hell prior to Beychella but you cant lie and say these dances dont look lit asf to do
" Sally: That's Pumpkin, The cat girl is Snowflake, and the boy is Jazz

Pumpkin: ????

Jazz: *scared*

Sno "
Period  we know yo ass love to dance 
"Home is watching the moon rise over the open, sleeping land and having someone you can call to the window, so you "
omg this group of girls in the dance room just helped us learn the boy w luv choreo big hit auditions we coming
" hoseok at any given circumstances: i gotta dance 

jen at any given circumstance: i gotta drive "
 Yet the poorest of the poor here don't warrant a visit? Yeah wait until you are 35. When you run and 
Now playing: CHRIS REA - LETS DANCE
come sweep up in your love again and my soul will dance on the wings of forever
Dance of the Humpback Whales 
En este momento: Sylvester - Dance (Disco Heat) -- en 
  I take it she's doing another rain dance
"The Reckoning is Here
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 To each their own type."
Shut up and Dance! : estoy viendo Black Mirror
As I do dance and formally did ballet when I was little that gives me the physical strength to strangle people with my feet
Jacoby Jones dance use to be hard asab 
Adam Hawley Feat. Dave Koz - Just Dance
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Prayer For You by Texas on  
"Fuck the bedroom I aint tryna dance with ya, bby Im just tryna beat the pots and pans with you"
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Its all fun and games until the sun goes away and the darkness outside starts to dance with the darkness in you.
 Oh but that dance break!
I watched homecoming about 4x. Here I am watching it again.  call me I learned the whole dance routine. Im ready 
Can you imagine growing up as a kid learning the dance routine to Get Me Bodied then being able to do that shit ON 
me waiting for the dionysus dance practice to come out 
VIDEO: Olamide - Spirit (Dance Video) 
aliya and I competing against each other in the dance contest for the signed square up album at the bp concert 
Ayyyye lol the bro and I. Every black cookout two step!  BeyonceHomecoming BeforeILetGoChallenge Beyonce 
"Hey champ, we wish you keep moving towards happiness abound just like your smooth dance moves!

WeLoveYourCompany "
"Attention  sweats no one wants to see your ninetys, just default dance instead"
"When I dance I dont want to think about anything

Lalisa

BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
 
"
Wonder if Uma Thurman can still dance
"LADIES, listen to these modern belly dance music hits written and produced by EMAD SAYYAH. Belly Dance Golden Hits "
Check out this great audiojungle item 'East Dance' add 
"i wanna meet you at 1AM, drink till 2AM and dance till 4AM"
  Dont rez up or dance Trudeau. Try not to screw up this relationship also. Your conduct is 
"currently: having a solo dance party in my room while doing a face mask
mood: thriving"
Dont say a word while we dance with the devil
If youve ever seen her dance fr fr youd understand why.
 Do you know how many performers can do this... a flip doesnt make someone a great performer .. he can 
"""Minor things can become moments of great revelation when encountered for the first time."" -Margot Fonteyn

Dance"
Favorite song ever since I was 8 and Austin Ames didnt recognize Sam under her mask as they danced under the gazeb 
Somebody PLEASE explain to me whyyyyyy did Lisa run into the library and NOT back in the dance ThrillerMovie 
"""I hope there are days when your coffee taste like magic, your playlist makes you dance, strangers make you smile, "
"I need a commercial dance agent. And by that, I mean I need an agent to submit me for Beyonc projects and Beyonc projects only."
Do you know how to dance to country music?  Umm I have but idk if I really know how its been a good while 
anyone wanna learn the idbitc dance with me?
Can you do the thizzle dance?? 
"bts just rereleased the not today dance practice and they look so good like,, wow "
No. I'm not gonna install PUBG again just bcuz Taeyeon dancing to PUBG chara's dance
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Award Tour by A Tribe Called Quest on  
 Ive gotta pee just watching these guys dance around 
"I take that back she is just a queen she can rap, sing, dance, write songs, produce, and compose   "
NEW COUPLE DANCE BALL ROOMDress code SL Secondlife _bot
"The angel in blue is the reason I believe in myself. My piano teacher :,)  OH we're performing for a western asian "
"""Let him lead...in the dance at least."" ADiscoveryofWitches"
" This gif reminded me a tour to Naran areas
My friend,PHD in chemistry is fond of dance n fun a lot 
So "
"If you dont know who Kiel is, well he was in Royal Family dance crew like a OG basically. His always stood out to "
InMyWillILeftYou the last dance Ive been saving. 
Youve gotta dance like theres nobody watching. Opposites Attract by McCoy De Leon and Elisse Joson MORPinoyBiga10 mor1019
My nieces step dad refused to go with her to the father/daughter dance because she doesnt act like his kid and do 
 Lol watch him become the next ice dance Olympic champion 
"at this age, the only dance move I knew was the one where u sweep ur shoulders with ur hands  "
Im almost 18 and to this day I dont know how to the charlie brown dance in the cha cha slide and it still gets me each time /:
"T-20 Days: I didnt get any pics with any of my multi friends, but good job to you guys for performing! Dont worry "
 dance my twitter 
  Yes please! We need to come dance away the frustration.
" Bts I love u guys so much lately Ive been ok, happy listening to Boy with love and I learned the dance bu "
 this is a good article and you should all read it
  You mean...you DON'T have a couple boats? What kind of a bogus welfare cheat are yo 
Trying not to snap when I dance. It's really hard.
"NowPlaying  dance DJSet in WDP362 
On  Radio LasVegas
Tune In Here  "
"What makes an amazing birthday?
Spend the day doing something you love. Check
Do something that scares you.  Check "
" Its my new obsession! I have so many dance injuries on my hips &amp; knees, so  an aerial sport puts less "
 Woodys gonna default dance just watch
"things  does while waiting for chicken fries

-if your house aint on cinder blocks then dont talk to "
Congratulations SENOR for winning second place at the Homey Spring  Festival 2019 Kpop Dance Cover Competition Hoob 
just dance 2016
 I legit can still hear the Hamster Dance song with just the soundless gif ... eerie 
yall dont stan unb bc yall are COWARDS thats really it like theres just no other explanation. theyll ruin ur st 
On east side the last partys and clubs I been to Tha DJ never played a slow song... people dont slow dance NO more?
"Life isn't finding shelter in the storm. It's about learning to dance in the rain. 
 Sherrilyn Kenyon quote"
Brink 8th Dance 
"Jung Hoseok as Ashido Mina

- Always smiling; just an all out cheerful soul 
- Highly skilled dancers and tough d "
The original fortnight dance 
Justin Hammers dance bit is one of the worst parts of Iron Man 2 other than the drones weapon that didnt kill St 
her lil dance :( 
"Happy Morning.
Dance like there is no tomorrow.
"
"Saturday night, I feel the air is getting hot, like you baby!
Dance to all the nostalgia tracks from the 80s &amp; the "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Kygo's Think About You (feat. Valerie Broussard) 
The guy that did my nails today probably had a heart attack over my feet. Dance just isnt good to the toes  youwinsomeyoulosesome
  riiiipaa mate  chip party  dance time  nkotb style 
"New album from Otaki Airforce.

It's me, but not like normal me... like, beeps and stuff.

 electronica "
 Its the worst theme that I cant get enough of. I do a little dance and everything.
"*""What Is Love"" playing in the background while constantly bobbing our heads in sync with each other* Hey....wanna "
"*""What Is Love"" playing in the background while constantly bobbing our heads in sync with each other* Hey....wanna "
Bopping and flopping and crazy-dancing around my house to music like a deranged marionette. I might be a Ballroom a 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Me doing DDU-DU on Just Dance (this is the same choreo) 
watching that crown relay dance again rlly made me fall deeper i Luv w y*onj*n huh
Last Night At The Father Daughter Dance With This Beauty Of Mines RosesForDaddyBaby 
Not drunk enough to dance to Modest Mouse
"May we dance, once more?
This time,
slower."
 I stick with the century that brought me to the dance.
I need to dance like crazy
Pleasure Activism talk ending in  dance party
soulja boys crank dat dance is a masculinized version of voguing
"What a such a beautiful dance lisa! u killing me 
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
  this shit still SLAPS and you bet your ass i still know the dance
Freddy Fender Bellamy Brothers - Save The Last Dance For Me  via 
Dance to the beat of the 303 -   &lt;3
"I just remembered that my 2009 iPod Classic had ""You can dance if you want to"" engraved on it (and my name cuz my mom thought I'd lose it)"
Andrea's demonstrating a new and bouncy technique of dance fighting (Video) 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Is She Really Going Out With Him? by Joe Jackson on  
"I'd love to dance in a ballet with utau_aria one day. She seems like a fine, well-mannered young lady."
Dance makes me shine
"Blood is on the dance floor
Blood is on the knife
Susie's got your number
And Susie says its right"
"Yeah, but can she dance? "
Dance in the death.
   yall cannot dance  
Will i lose few kgs doing this everyday or i will lose my teeth first? What an intense dance step  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: You Should Be Dancing by Bee Gees on  
Last night I took a dance class taught by a former Dallas Cowboy Cheerleader....I still kinda got it but I AM SO SORE
Shuffle dance
  OMG abit slow to the dance don't u all think? What is WRONG with these people? SO investe 
so . i will be trying out for dance team on tuesday haha
 Show her your dance moves (especially the crazy legs you do at the gym) 
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
 wait  but   the one Gaston why you copy his dance?????el on musk 
Congratulations DELIXTRIUS for winning first place at the Homey Spring  Festival 2019 Kpop Dance Cover Competition 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Year Of Decision by The Three Degrees on  
zona zero abdul famoso feat filip krump dance  via 
"Wait for it

Yeah we got a BOOM in the chat literally  during tonights  [ZDF] dance battle!

 "
Just ask me and Ill dance with you even if I dont know how to....
Grade 7  dancers working with  and dance artist Janice Pomer for ThinkPink TDSB  
Dance drives this classic tale's reemergence in '50s Havana at  Public Arts  via 
" the training scene, the dance scene, magnus being jealous scene Shadowhunters SaveShadowhunters "
"  Yaaaaaayyyyyy  happy dance
It's like christmas and easter on one day  So many great th "
    A line dance
"That's my SECOND-least Apocalyptic B-movie trope, the FIRST being the random teen dance party.

(Don't get me wrong "
I miss dancing in a studio.. i still dance at home but I really wanna get back in someones studio tbh.
But do you Fortnite dance at sky bar
" Hes the worst, too. Every time he speaks, his ego and privilege do a tap dance."
Love Sculpture - Sabre Dance  via 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing She's A Bad Mama Jama by Carl Carlton on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Piano Funk (Radio Edit) by Total Science &amp; S.P.Y. Feat. Riya &amp; Dam Fu 
When Your Heart Is Weak (Dance Mix)Cock robin
Im still waiting them to dance... 
"Back when I was a child Before life removed all the innocence My father would lift me high
And dance with my mother "
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
Diamonds on me they dance fa real!!
"Now playing on Freeminded FM:
DJ Nico - Summer Hit dance 2017
ElectroHouse ElectroHouseFamily EDM "
"I love watching BTS music videos. Mainly for the dance moves... their lyrics dont make any sense to me, even when they sing in english"
"Looking for girls to dance to my songs

Like if ur interested

Sellingnudes 
sugardaddy 
cumtribute 
lbmg"
"Come on let's dance
If you can't dance
You might at least try to smile
Pour me more drinks
Love me more
You who mor "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Licka
 - LO'FLY Ft. Pavones
 "
Women arent exactly lining up to dance with a guy they might step on
"The fight is won or lost far away from witnesses - behind the lines, in the gym, and out there on the road, long be "
    Well who says white women can't dance? Well done Ivanka.
I have a mommy &amp; son photo shoot tomorrow and Im sick 
 My bias is Eunbi. She always leaves me in awe whenever she dance and sing. I really admire her sens 
 Such a little ray of pure joy. I want to imagine Chaplin in the afterlife doing a grownup impression of the kid's dance.
  I remember the relief to Everyone when he resigned!!Hopefully were looking at the same 
frankturner wants to dance!! An absolute incredible show!! punk livemusic @ Oakdale Theatre 
" You call the look of perpetual tiredness, cute?

A brow is raised, the corners of his lips twitchin "
My dance clients show so much love 
"Modern dance does not need you to understand, you just need to feel, and have your own interpretation. 10 people wa "
the blue cloud wallpaper in sms dance practice videos really make the dance hit differently
I just got so sick! 
"Dance practice - JK &amp; JM ('Own it' choreography by Brian puspose)  via 
10,000,000 v "
  Won the Conference Tourney in the best conference in CB. Beat the National Champions both 
"like lol,twice is such a talented angels.They are all can rap,sing dance and composed a songs!Then u called them ta "
"Calling all the Weekenders to hit the dance floor tonight, with Angga, Apsara and Dimitri on the decks will let th "
we take a momentary break to eat waffles w the wine and dance to sharon van etten
If you catch me dancing just dance with me or leave me alone smh dont ruin it
"I was so conflicted about my memorial outfit. Like I felt like a 70s Godiva princess but then at the same time, I f "
Congratulations M2U for winning second place at the Homey Spring  Festival 2019 Kpop Dance Cover Competition Rookie 
I cant really dance I be jiggin
"A thing of beauty... like Michael Flatley, Lord of the Dance  LAGalaxy  "
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Purple Haze by Jimi Hendrix on  
"The Best songs rock pop dance latino np John, I'm Only Dancing by David Bowie on  "
"Laugh your heart out, dance in the rain, cherish the moment, live, laugh, love, forgive &amp; forget, life's 2 short 2 be, living w/ regrets."
"If I could steal one final glance One final step
One final dance with him I'd play a song that would never ever end "
"oh my girl: loses one award for best dance group 
oh my girl: "
they gave new zed skin boopmbox dance im jammin
I'm in love shape of dance
Just5MinutesAlone and you put on your red shoes and dance the blues 
the avengers go into the stones. havent thought about what the others would do but the russos got summ for our oh 
"ultron said something that got to our oh captain my captain, something about all he is is just a soldier. made for "
Watching this boy dance with us gf and Im so jealous lol
Now playing on WGMU: Blue Line Baby by Nothing from Dance on the Blacktop
Bringing back this sope dance vid bc yaaaas 
Waaa 16 shots dance cover soon 
"Fellow Joker fans  Laugh your heart out, dance in the rain, cherish the moment, live, laugh, love, forgive &amp; forge "
" 
OMG DDR is not a Christian band! Its an arcade/computer game that was quite big in the "
 Same
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Don't Blame The Party (Mode) by Bingo Players Feat. Heather Bright on 
This is really random but 100 likes and ill post a dance cover for bts boy with luv 
i refuse to dance dont know what to do in public if i aint with friends bc i aint body waving randomly
Boys who dance&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
EZ DO DANCE
"   Sailors fighting in the dance hall
Oh man! 
Look at those cavemen go
It's th "
" Yes,l agree to that and every dance pose l thought it has something mean~"
This young lady that had her solo dance during Party &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Queen tingz
"Join SAYAWAN fun 4/28, 2-6pm! 6 free dance classes w/amazing instructors. Tahitian Zumba  Maculele  &amp; more! Sp "
Working...  dancer showtime dance backstage makeup brunette 
"[bot]Specialty/Hobby : Exercises, Dance"
We hope you like tiorr1 Dance Hall Days by Wang Chung  via  on 
" let me clarify...a PhD in something intellectual, not some bs like ancient cave dweller dance theory"
     u guys ar goin to survocate him just bcos of what happ 
" ""Cause I wanna dance with you all night"" "
" I was Lowkey offended, just trying to show u my dance mmcht"
sooo ig im washing my hair in the morning before dance 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : 100
 - Nic Chagall, Rank 1 and Wippenberg
 "
Eminem-Square Dance (Dirty)  via  MAGA TRUMP
"The way she took over the stage, how she enjoyed it, her smile, her voice, her dance, everything was perfect. "
" People All Over The World, dance to the groove of (Club Thang) This Party Song will inspire you to "
Go to  and choose Just Dance Now image (you will be redirect to Just Dance Now Generator sit 
  THANK YOU SO MUCH!!!! It is my absolute dream to dance for  
 And would you allow a dance?
 I cant dance for shit  
Lady Gaga's 15 Best Songs: Critic's Picks 
 its a Spanish dance I think
Im ready to get drunk and dance tomorrow
"Soooo
Im going to get my serendipity tattoo and Im probably going to get Lie on the other arm but I want the E at "
"Has anyone been able to dance to Get Me Bodied without collapsing to the floor?

Asking from me. Reporting live fro "
Between Homecoming and Lizzos album drop my store aisle dance moves are getting a lot of play this week. Youre welcome.
   Thats right he deservedly so deserves to dance.  He played long and ha 
Lalisa lisa the main dance of blackpink BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2
Dance makes my soul so unbelievably happy. There really isnt anything like it 
DanceWatch out!Bailando2019 mallplazaarica Dancehall popdance chile dance arica chainsmokers dancemusic 
"lightening &amp; rain outside
u feel like a 1st time
this feels like my 1st rhyme
its raining lust outside
u know im "
Now playing She's A Bad Mama Jama by Carl Carlton music best hits rock pop dance on  
So... I guess I'm learning to swing dance
 dancers dance dancer dancing music hiphop dancelife dancefloor art dancehall 
Let's go baby and dance now Hard Knock Life by Jay-Z on  
" The place is way too packed no place to move or dance ,it stinks of cigarettes and its got a small ass bar "
k i changed my mind dance ur blox off is awful
" HIICHAN!!! she's such an adorable member~ how she is one of the cutest members, and also in the gro "
 I think the song that Wyn and Kitty dance to is the same song that Irene Dunne sings in the shower scene in My Favorite Wife.
" Sally: *teleports them here*

Lyric: .....

Dance: Their so cute

Music: Aww "
" Hip hop is a culture(dance,fashion..etc) and rap is a form of hip hop(battle rap,freestyle,songs)."
"Jarel, come in here and show your aunties that dance! 

6 year old me: "
"Angala wanran wanran, desi beni a koro. 

That's the sound of a dance step of a masquerade. IjawTwitterCommunity IjawTwitter"
"Allow me to explain to the opps.Im not on campus so you cant call OSA on me...STOOPID Anyway, dont try my sisTe "
I Hate bitches with ass that cant dance 
momoland be like im so hot *dance*
Im too sad to pole dance
"Id love a    and  song &amp; video collab.

Some  dance music!!!  Please!! We need it for the summer!!!!"
" look @

them dance"
its 12 at night on a rainy mysterious night and im listening to very sleepy mysterious music and i want to go outsi 
" hii i think youre really cool and i hope we can talk more bc i think we have a lot in common hehe
also "
 Hes just a massive fool . Its as lame as his ridiculous dance at the footy . And saying I bet Bil 
"  Keep him, we dont want him back"
 me and my irls made a yeehaw dance
Sylvester - Dance (Disco Heat)
  when is the release of the dance video i have to practice it so i could prepare for my cousin's debut but 
If youve ever had to either hear me sing or watch me dance before I am seriously so sorry
  // Very cool. :) Could I maybe see one of your videos? I could use some assistance cre 
"I am officially old. First football dance I ever did in pads when I was 9 years old was the ""get your roll on"" "
  Im gonna live dance it 
   For there to be a collusion with any Russian it must include the lap dance 
    Try you dance Mr. Taxi for just 1 minute ok! 
"appreciate dance king, appreciate lee minho
"
"i want to dance, i want to drink, i want to breathe"
BLACKPINK - Kill This Love Dance Cover by PINK PANDA from Indonesia BLACKPINKINYOURAREA BLACKPINKForum 
" Dance dance, get em "
Those were proud you emails from  always make me dance 
i aint gonna stop talking about dionysus that push up dance oh shit
if the whole world was watching id still dance with you
parity and about to dance so getting ready
"I love to dance to the right, simple words that need to be written"
"Well, I fell twice today, but it's cool because I only embarrassed myself in front of the UWM Dance team once. The "
I used to tear it up on the dance floor -my mom
"TheHangout PartyOfTheLife Was All Shades Of LIT! 

Its All About JESUS!!!

dj gospel party mix dance "
I wanna go out and dance
How This Taylor Swift Backup Dancer Stays Pescatarian on the Road - Dance Magazine  
"Craaaaazy feels right now, give me a dance studio and hugot music let's see where this takes me covernaba"
un max de sons hit and  dance enjoy  Jonas Blue - What I Like About You [feat. Theresa Rex]   
howdy!! @ Down on the Farm Barn Dance 
adelines sobbing bc she cant do a tik tok dance someone come collect
"After attending a Supportive Adult + Child dance with my kiddo tonight, Im pleased to say that the Whip Nae Nae is "
Letting my spirits dance to the music in darkness
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Magic
 - KSHMR
 "
and yes i made sure to include a picture of them from when they danced their best dance thank you
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Surrender by Cash Cash on  
 Nah. The dance break after.
Saw a DGD tweet and it really took me back to when we were all only tweeting Dance Gavin Dance lyrics
The whoa. Finally a dance the older saints can do in church.
"An uncredited VanJohnson in his first film, Too Many Girls (1940). He was front and center in several scenes and "
I did not teach her these dance moves  WhereDidSheLearnThis WhyIsSheMobingHerHipsLikeThat 
the most memorable part is when Minseok-hyung loses on the game and the pd's wish for him was to dance. And while I 
tmrw. 9am. don't miss it. x dance munroe 2019 
"Son-Rise Easter Eve Celebration
4.20.19 | 1PM
Join us for music, dance, celebration, games &amp; prizes, Easter egg hun "
Never would Layla and spencer dance in Ashers face 
"i cant dance

- Q"
"Soulchild, Sadeck, Candyman vs Jimmy Soul  Locking Battle Demo at Next Urban Legend 2015 / "
 I REMEMBER DOING THIS DANCE WITH YOU  I miss spending my summers with you  
  MICHAEL FLATLEY LORD OF THE DANCE!!!
" Yes,yes,yes,makes you want to dance. "
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
"Kicking off the boyfriend's birthday week by being his plus one at the Liahona alumni dance! 2 DJs, refreshments, a "
We even went to Wal-Mart after the school dance.  
if youre looking for something to do tomorrow night come out to Mr.LD @ 7pm!! you might see a few familiar faces f 
"Its Friday and I am wearing the pants that make me dance, designed by  hiphoprealtor Love what I do  "
can't wait for  Boy With Luv dance practice video 
Did you ever dance with the devil in the pale moonlight?
My heart breaks at the fact my daughter will never have a father walk her down the isle and no one to do a father d 
    Lmaooo you can dance
"I don't usually upload my Pokemon ocs here but I like this Goodra

Name: Gontami (from the word 'contamination')
Ge "
 is the EP all dance bops or will we get some sad boi hour bops too 
"Ok someone teach me how to dance, Im tired of just doing finger guns"
 dance my twitter id 
Let's go baby and dance now White Flag by Far East Movement on  
I learned the chorus of Boy with luv and omg I freaking dance so bad HAHAHHAHA and also my face its so red right know 
If Im middle aged at a bar please dont send me onto the dance floor with a tambourine
"Love this timeless, proper cover of New Order (Strawberry Studio Sessions) of Bizzare love triangle. Our amazing pr "
I just wanna go to a dance. High-key.
  her little laugh after the first dance 
i didnt wanna like lovely by billie eyelash bc i cant stand bananies and avacadies type singers but the ten winwi 
" Despite all of the computations, you could just dance to that rock and roll station."
"y'all who the fuck said yoongi is not part of the dance line????? 
"
"  I tried a group class of African dance once, and trust me, my African was completely different from everyone else's :D"
"Hello Kids.
Learn Alphabets Song in a fun and colorful way with Junior Squad. Lets sing and dance too with thi "
"VeranoMixVol9 |   
-Escuchalos online: 
Cabina Summer Mix 
Classic Dance Summer "
I'll update the grand total after I recover from dance. I encourage you also to spread the word and to tell any tra 
Everybody to the dance floor
"Lisa's best DANCE COVER?

REPLY WITH THE TAGS

LALISA
LISA"
 Washington Post is doing an end zone dance? You couldn't have gotten it more wrong sweetheart.
"Someone called me talentless. 

If talentless means I can draw/sketch, write fanfics, play piano, play guitar, play "
Dance Cardio feels amazing  now time for some stretching and yoga
"I invented the best new dance move last night, but I dont know if yall ready for that yet..."
"   The moonwalk wasn't invented by Michael Jackson. So don't embarss urself, educ "
I don't know what this stupid arm-swinging dance I can't seem to go a day without seeing someone doing is or where 
tonight im gonna dance for u
 I have a coffee mug that says Todays goal: keep the tiny humans alive. I have 3 tiny humans. Sometimes 
I cant really dance i be jiggin
A glass fell on the dance floor at formal and no one did shit. But later on someone dropped their July and everyone 
attending Vanjie at Prism at Prism Dance Club 
A glass dropped and broke earlier and no one cared but a juul goes missing on the dance floor and suddenly there's unity in the room lmaoooo
In about 15 years I am really looking forward to the super cringy wedding videos of a generation that learned to dance from FORTNITE.
 They are planning a Las Vegas vs Chicago gangster dance party
"SafariLive
groovy ellie square dance. "
Saints &amp; sinners on Good Friday at festivalmusicaclsicaBogot: religious &amp; secular processions with &amp; without wun 
haha hey dg never fucking command me to dance with another person thank uuuuuuuu
"Drunk at the club on a Saturday night 
Nobody:

Us recording our friends dance for the snap: AYE! AYE! AYE! AYE! AYE!"
Ants in my pants and I need to dance I got ants in my pants and I need to dance
Just straight-out cancel the club membership of racist trolls. No need to make a big song and dance.
 girl i did a happy dance &amp; everything lol
I watch A LOT of dance (specifically ballet which is extremely precise) so these are just observations
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : A Different Way
 - DJ Snake Ft. Lauv
 "
So when were listening to get me bodied in 2053 and Beyonc says to do an old school dance will the stanky leg count?
"My friendships are shifting in the best way because honestly Ive lost people lately, but I had an amazing day with "
 still super interesting to watch for the artistry and seeing lots of diff dance styles. altho it rly is 
  But he sing. Then are you dance while having a shower?
My warmup routine was so lit thanks to BeyonceHomecoming ! If you see me just doing a dance routine to get ready f 
"Tweet from Kandi Burruss ( Kandi Burruss ( Tweeted:
This was so hilarious! I had to repost. This is h "
"Editing my butt off on this new vlog,  you guys better watch it and leave a like or the Ali A demons will come and "
I feel like when Im drunk I dance better 
I never thought I would get tired of seeing a dance.. But damn Im tired of seeing the Beyonc Coachella dance.. 
"Ngl it was worth the wait and cost of tickets to see Dance Gavin Dance live, the rest of the bands touring w them "
Is it me or did JLo try to cop Beyonce formation vibes with the hats and woman dancing around her n her new video 
 Yeah. Enough is Enough. Get that good only for dance clown  out of this team asap. He s 
I wanna learn to dance cumbia :/
WAIT WAIT WAIT. yall didnt realize the buss down thotina dance AND the no auto durk dance are LOWKEY THE FUCKING- WHAT CAME FIRST?
how did you guys do in the big dance this year? did you win your bowl game this year? 
Something my enemies cant tap dance to. 
i like to dance
did this child just coordinate a whole ass dance out of nowhere AND have more rhythm than the majority of ppl on th 
Yadier molina is going to outlive me and dance on my grave
  CPS will pick her up tomorrow but let a boy dance half naked in a gay bar.
That's not to say that i really dance much at small shows either because I'm usually glued to the edge of the stage 
"Friendship
club clubing night drink dance clarkequay boatquay singapore music dj weekend fullmoon "
I've finally figured out why i prefer small general admission shows. Theres no room to dance at seated arenas!! I f 
 I understand what you mean. but go celebrarte your arrival into your 20s!!! eat some cake and dance 
"Juicy J - Bandz a Make Her Dance Remix (feat. French Montana, Lola Monroe, Wiz Khalifa &amp; B.o.B) -INDEPENDENT ARTIST "
I'm in a mood to dance to some new wave rn
Just walked into the  and broke into some song and dance to  Cant stop the feeling...  da 
i was supposed to go to japan next summer for dance but my teacher said it was too expensive. imagine how iconic. 
I was at Kroger before Ring Dance with friends and we were all dressed up and a little girl looked at us and said  
"   Haha i will be like this all the way at the London Palladium, is a posh the "
"The dance class I went to yesterday gave me a full body workout, havent had this kinda pain since the car accident "
   They can not even find Trump buying a Russian a lap dance .
mais um dia assistindo o dance practice de what is love once ver.
      You beghairats ask your wife to dance in fr 
Also not a fan. I hate when white people go to Africa dressed in all white to take pics with poor children and danc 
 Jus chill in the crib and dance and sing and eat chicken lol thats what we do
"D&amp;D is the best because a player just casually said ""interstellar Cuisinart"" and it clearly meant: a teenaged god-p "
I wont be able to dance for the whole month of May because of my surgery and I am so sad 
"Yeah, I need to practice really hard so I can dance like an Uncle Grandpa... I think."
ion like to dance but ima dance witcha
" I think the idea is Ooblets will have ""battles"" similar to Pokmon, just with dance moves instead of clobbe "
Im going make your hoe dance with the devil 
"There in the bars 

And through the smokescreen of the crowded restaurants

It's love 

Yes,all we've looking for i "
 Why anybody ever asked for your opinion about anything ever is beyond me. Unless its something li 
I cant remember how to dance and Ill probably feel awkward very quickly but I dont care I bought this jumper so 
"Scribble Animation Dance Practice mix with Scribble Animation MV 

amvrreza // IG
Yeji yuna lia "
 im not. i really wanna give somebody a lap dance but nobody takes me seriously 
 I just wanna dance!
"I always dance to no music 
-"
I call this dance move murder
"I hope you still feel small when you stand beside the ocean,
Whenever one door closes I hope one more opens,
Promis "
Are beautiful cast and parents at this years Dance Ex Gala Dinner before awards 
"Daehwi: Airplane is a gift song for izone its a pop dance that match Izones fun charms, i made airplane compared t "
Onair with  Afrojack feat. Chris Brown - As Your Friend Dance Electro  
 can make a handshake with Namjoon but cant even look jimin in the eyes its okay Halsey I can watch BTS 
  Oh for the time being check out Korean dance team Just Jerk who dances to Home lately. Th 
" I know those feels, bro. At my Third Form high school dance, the only person who asked me to dance wa "
I think I use my arms too much when I dance lol
" I have freaking dance class to go and then I have music class after that, fucking save me"
"WHEEZE

I could watch Koharu Sugawara dance all day. I really want to dance in a nice studio like this again.
"
"  ""You can dance if you wanna, you can leave your cares behind "" "
So this in question to erica. What is the most dance ever that u make me finish the underground of your negativit 
"It's a fact. The ZStars are a whole bunch of crackheads. The sibling rivalry and sibling love is awesome. 


RA "
Some of you still havent seen this clip where Jinwoo and Jehyun immediately know the song I Need u and continuousl 
WHO KNEW a dance remix of I Will Survive would be so goooooooooooooooood??? 40watt
"Hope to see you for an awesome and fun class Saturday at 1pm.
FitSpiration sweatydiva zumbainstructor "
Hustlers Has Riverdale Star Lili Reinhart Showing Off Her DanceMoves  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock The Hardest Part by Blondie on  
Love Come Quickly -Extended 12inch Dance mix- Pet Shop Boys 
at the Disney dance party i s2g the queen of hearts was the scariest thing ive ever seen
 When ever you feel down play this video and dance along.  BearJam
i am really sleepy and emotionally drained but taemin it literally just a little jelly bean and when he dance hes 
"sally ('sa-lE) def. 1. To Rush Forward; also, to Leap and Dance; 2. A Sudden Outburst; a Witticism; a Quip; 3. A V "
With brooklynn. I love her so much. My best fucking friend. Even tho the bitch has no dance moves unless shes drun 
Best rock pop dance music Now Here Comes The Rain Again by Eurythmics on  
"  Not sure that's true, but the only reason HRC isn't in jail is because Billy boy met wit "
Latin dance night  they supported me so pay back shots whenever I can! theshack ouohyeah 
 this literally almost everyone on my dance team. 
 love the dance break.. it gives me that buzz
  Just to throw this out there chris brown may can dance and keep a crowd lit but to say his imp 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Spread Love
 - Mantrastic Ft. Rechler
 "
Kid Cudi by Playboi makes me wunna cry &amp; dance around at the same time ??
 Coulda swore you were gonna play the Fortnite default dance song at the end
this lil girl at the airport really broke my ankles dance battling
5 years ago at IDT! Committed to dance Rekha Rani Rawat 
"Sam Ash Open Mic Wednesdays

Snippet of my original song Last Dance Together "
This May Ill go to Paris with full records of IAM bag ! 25th May Saturday. Check this out Soul Parade Club !! 
"A friend suggested I have an account for dance practice and practicing Chinese, so... here you go! I will post s "
 Hope you are having a blast AyChellaDay1! Dance for me please. 
I used to try and do this when I thought I could break dance 
 killing these dance classes!!!! Keep it up!!!!!
"I literally have steamed this room up so much with dance, I can't see my fucking feet, &amp; I think I just stepped on "
The tick is rlly a black dance staple 
"British Doctors May Soon Prescribe Art, Music, Dance, Singing Lessons "
the mv for dance with me by beabadoobee is so cute
"The upcoming best chill spot in the metro!!!

Dance, mingle, drink, eat, sing, play, and more!!!
More unveiling soon!!!"
"if my friends don't do a synchronised dance to the hoedown throwdown and the cupid shuffle on my wedding, then secu "
"Sad ie Hawkins dance. . In my kahaki pants. Theres nothing better 

Oh! Oh oh get the fuck up"
I need me a lil lady to pull over on a backroad with at 2 in the morning and dance in the headlights to some good ole Joe diffie
 The dance show my daughter is in. 
"Ugh, Id love to take a bachata dance class"
I dont even care that I have to be the one sitting at the table watching the drinks while my friends dance I like watching them have fun
I dance with my face when witches hate people. It enchants me.
"When they decide to pile on....stand up proudly, and say... "
This is dope. She's doing some Rhythm Nation type dance thing behind a background of smoke in near darkness. Pretty cool.
  Screw the phone Dance in the rain together and after get out of the wet clothes and into 
"Jimin
-23
- literature and dance major 
- lives with jungkook
- works at a bookstore part time 
(Private acc and on "
   Go and watch  Sahasam swasaga sagipo movie Rarandoi veduka 
I cant dance but I am in the mood to 
  yo ass to fat to just give a lap dance and go on about your day
Marquei como visto The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel - 2x6 - Let's Face the Music and Dance  bancodeseries
" gemini venus, aries moon, cancer mercury - ""sophie"" by the altogether, trust me, it's like a hug during a slow dance"
OLD TOWN ROAD - Lil Nas X ft Billy Ray Cyrus Dance | Matt Steffanina &amp; J... 
" 
HateBit - Dance! (OST I Hate This Game) "
Watching the   special wondering how many times they had to practice to coordinate the consistency 
I be trying to dance like Q Money but I aint cool enough lol
The vocals brooooooooo to sing and and run and dance and ahhhhh wtf bet why you do ya like that
" :(( cas no, youll be the best dancer ever that momos gonna be ur background dance"
"I put together a new, edgier dance routine, but I'm too embarassed to show anyone!"
Imma Get In That Pussy &amp; Dance In It 
 this look like a high school dance how sad soybond
Can we bring back our  cheerleaders. No disrespect but I'm not a fun of the new storm dance crew. Would have 
 Mostly we do right but think about it if we are trying to make the c for people watching the dance shouldn't it be left
 Save Him The Last Dance.... Ok I'm done. I don't need my ass verbally beat down on Twitter  
Im crying because I know PRISM is shaking and shes finally gonna dance and serve some goddess visuals this era 
broadcast the boom boom boom boom and make em all dance to it
Me and my friends having a dance battle  
we played say a little prayer in hip hop today and all i did was do the glee dance from episode 2
FBF n my Episode 95 streaming at mixcloud techno podcast weslochantechnosessions .. enjoy the dance  @ Califor 
Dance With You (Extented version)Carrie Lucas
"&gt;&gt;

A Dance practice 2
(A+ ver.)

  

. "
"Now Playing, Toto Blanke  LADYS BICYCLE SMEAT SMELLER from SPIDERS DANCE music Jazz"
 Did you dance?
"   College dance is pretty much the same way,  

She sets the glass to the side, head lo "
  Yep or some salsa or ballet Troupe as well ..cause both of those dance forms are quite po 
Dance lessons with  We have to practice  Aly Dance 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Le Freak by Chic on  
Let's go baby and dance now Shiny Disco Balls by DJ Scotty Boy Feat. Sue Cho on 
  Diddy dance moves are timeless... nigga been doing same 2-3 steps since 97!
 imma dance while i cry like a little bitch
Who's trying to cover Sadie Hawkins Dance by Relient K with me
I dont dance is def my favorite HSM2 song
Until today I've really been sleeping on trivia just dance I really don't deserve rights 
"GOT7 ""Lullaby"" Dance Practice (Suit Ver.)"
"Got our gangsta on tonight Thanks Isela for a great class   dancemodeon
.
.
I totally had a brain "
"Me: I wanna die
Chika: does the most uplifting dance in anime ever 
Me: never mind"
 thank you for dropping a banger collab with BTS! My 2 year old cousin loves it!! He tries to dance and sing 
 Dance... or at least I used to fatandold
I love being with aidan he makes me smile and makes my heart dance 
 Can you dance x
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: All This Time by Sting on  
   Beyonce is mostly appreciated for her hard work. That I dance 2-3 hours a 
Okay but listening to Old Town Road and think to myself a choreographed dance thats a little bit country and a lit 
"Come and see AliciaGWorld's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Hi GuysDance Fun  
 "
"   has gone where no other Indian leader can even dream of. 
What about the opp "
"CLASSIC FILMS free

film video history race ecology comedy love sex native black dance"
omgg wish i could sing and dance
Agostini  - Dance On The Groove (Techno Dance Floor)
Get up and dance!   Cody Chesnutt -  Til I Met Thee.   
watching the Beyonc documentary on Netflix make me wish i knew how to dance and sing bruh  Im taking some lessons in the summer
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Noise
 - Dannic &amp; DBSTF
 "
"Hey NERD NATION!    are taking on  TONIGHT! Are you ready to dance?
Get your tickets "
 The shoot dance*
 A some rum him drink it look like and a dance with the white lady lol
"look at my friend zuru dance X3 
 Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch "
NowPlaying Trial Dance -  (The Idolm 765Pro Allstars+ Gre Best! -Cool &amp; Bitter!) 
  You could say that about 99.9% of trumps tweets.
"This girl is clearly wasted on the dance floor, literally shimmied into my line of vision, forced eye contact and p "
i love watching white girls dance
APink - Bubibu Nonono dance cover by Awhite 
"Come and see Jessloserette's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance HOT DANCE  
 "
" Likewise, nobody says, switch to Oakland game, AB might do a TD dance, stupid."
yeah Flames are done.....kudos  I thought they would dance all over the Avs. Looks like this is the year of the upset.
"Today's weather forecast: hot wind, high of 10C. Later: a dance party.

Thought of the Day: It's a day for building trust."
"bruh my headphones died in the middle of im filled with steak, and i cannot dance"
 doing your Carlton dance yet? 
yall im listening to theif in the night THE ONE WHERE THERE WAS A DANCE FOR MUSICALLY AND OMG I CANT-
I wanna dance):
anyone who leaves the dance floor when bel biv devos poison comes on should be arrested
" Someone explain baekhyun dance please !!
 EXO EXOBilllboardTopSocialArtist EXOBBMA"
im tryna get a boo so i can finally give somebody a lap dance 
" Sally: *teleports back* Who's ready to see them

Lyric: .....no

Dance: I am

Music: Same"
dance party to  lastnight;  funk down tonight;  &amp;  tomorrow! 
Okay Planet Fitness with this Destinys Child - Girl dance mix
fortnite leaks art itemshop instadaily love passion memes xbox news ps4 youtuber youtube live 
"i just want to feel your embrace as we dance in the rain, silver ripples in the growing puddles, our feet writing words on the pavement."
Let's go baby and dance now Booyah [Radio Edit] by Showtek Feat. We Are Loud &amp; Sonny Wilson on 
Sudden thought that maybe 10 years down the road out of all the w1 members only jisung (and jaehwan maybe) will rem 
"Been on enough dance floors to know that some people just tend to move backward for no reason, but not enough to understand it"
This is a dance music.
I want to dance the 50's with you and with you only
Massive congratulations! Big bear dance. Do some decoding disco too. Impressive! 
Abhisting - Dance Star (Nrty Taara) [Official Music Video] 
 video go dumb and im m atl dancer so dance battle
can yall just bring the dougie back thats the only american dance i like
Damn. Recommended up its game finally Just Dance 2 - Rasputin (side by side) 
i wish i can dance like that :&lt;
Scenario : a girl attempts to dance with someone you really like at a party wwyd?  no comment 
80s Funk Dance Music Shalamar A Night To Remember 
 Man you can do Arab music dance I can't even move my legs properly 
It takes 2 to tango baby I needa dance partner
" I dont dance, bet on it, what time is it? All bops."
" I just want you, dance with me molly, Kentucky bluebird just to name a few"
"Wow. God is Great &amp; there are still good people out there.

We went to  for our little family dinner &amp; Lyric "
You are listening to Matoma  Enrique Iglesias  feat. Konshens  I Dont Dance (Without You) - unknown artist
" Am told that Warren, who was flying back to Boston was told she was in last place in energy and fundraising "
 I love this little dance
"[ WKDfm: Chic - Dance Dance Dance.mp3 
  
 Live, Legal and Loud - Internet Radio ]"
"  Shinsia should have gotten in instead of Ahin at the time, but Ahin has improved her d "
I need to get in the dance studio
" The most important game reviews come from  and 

The combat doesn't feel we "
"This week in D&amp;D - Nef Nisslin: A magic sword, distrust, an exorcism(?), an international threat, upgrades, MEAT, b "
  You can break dance while you wash  Sisq
can dance war be a permanent thing these guys love each other and ever since unb disbanded i havent had enough quality dances going around
  Those are some amazing moves. Nothing ruins a dance like a guy in a wheelchair.
I will travel the world and dance!!!
Holy shit a 18 year old girl choreographed the Dionysus dance? Fcking Legend We STAN
"Just a few dozen tickets left for 2019sayawan. Bring friends &amp; fam 4 a day of delish Filipino eatss, FREE dance cl "
Hottest dance performance I've ever seen from Jin 
 Ill dance extra hard for yall 
" name: Baby girl
age: Younger than me
where i live: in a place where you sleep
what i always say: lite "
"old town road came on the radio and my dad said, what dance is this? the hokey pokey?"
 If I see woody doing to shoot dance im gonna be very upset
"Catering event, funeral, and dance practice for Easter all before 2pm, i can sleep next week"
" Define ""couldn't dance"" bc I don't think we are thinking of it in the same way. Lol"
my s*ster plans to dance at the aloha rally ....
"If I would consider one injury, I sure bet its not on my legs. What am i supposed to do if I can't dance or run?! "
"C-Lee Dance AyeeeFeatureMe
LiveMe-Live broadcasting community "
     Wow one of the best dance groups ever too
"Do you dance like crazy when no one is looking? What music makes you dance the most?  yeah i do :D, i luv Egyptian "
I love dance so much! 
random but omg a Boy With Luv dance cover would be so fun to do lmao
"That pink moon was so pretty, I just wanted to dance with it. 
"
ronnie just entered the DonnieIsOnlineParty and moved straight to the dance floor!! imagine theres like a funny vid of someone dancing here
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Dreadlock Holiday by 10cc on  
You know what sucks? When no one else will dance with you at a bar of people not dancing.....
am choreographing secksea dance to Mommae 
i love making people dance 
 I grew to like her part in Idol. I hated the Desinger one more. Did you like Shut up and Dance?
Just thought about wanting to doing a praise dance for my grandfather funeral. Idk if l would be able to do it with out crying.
nowplaying When We Dance -  | info instagram  musikenakseharian 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Jaleo
 - Nicky Jam Ft. Steve Aoki
 "
If u on the dance floor doin some trash to Nicki Im personally offended
In the comfort room you see the woman who has the only love left from your soul.  You by the 1975 starts playing. 
It's prom night and you're stuck in a corner eyes glued to all the people on the dance floor. There you saw someone 
Nothing like being at a party with a bunch of dance majors to remind you how rhythmically challenged you are
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Booyah [Radio Edit] by Showtek Feat. We Are Loud &amp; Sonny Wilson on 
 NOW THE NEIGHBOURS CAN DANCE
Drake really snapped w one dance
   I gotta learn the dance first 
  How do you call someones family invalid. Its a dance relax 
" Write , play piano, sing , dance , sometimes bake , click pictures of the sky , play with my doggo and sleep"
"   No, she did an impeachment dance around the camp fire."
"Kill 'em all, then do a dance or somethin. "
"Roubei a idia do meu beb.

Y - you get me so high. - the neighbourhood.
A - angels. - the xx.
H - hell is where i "
      kinda like some of these ot 
JUST DANCE STREAM LIVE NOW???  
wish I could dance
" They say dance like nobody's watching. We say dance like you're wearing Lee jeans. Get it, Harnit!"
"Dance for Fitness

If u want to remain fit, Dancing is the best exer..For more info visit... "
"Grand City Surabaya holding special event to celebrate Kartini days from 18 april until 21 april 2019 
Features a "
"I'm so glad Bill can't dance like that, I'd be thinking twice about his leadership "
"However, she later went onto the path of taekwondo. She found taekwondo fun and even thought of becoming a taekwond "
Garth Brooks - The Dance (With Lyrics)  via 
"START YOUR DAY RIGHT with Jenny Osoria! Danzatone Class at 8:30am!!! Rendezvous Dance Studio, Rockville MD 20852 "
  Tweetup Fallon  heart! Love that Dance Style approval that your a Great Host Says Princess falpal! 
"I just listened to I Think Were Alone Now by Tiffany and it always reminds me of Middle School dances.

Do you "
"i need a concert right now im in the mood to forget everything, let go, and dance n sing to my favorite songs"
tweet  4 I wish those lanky white dudes in beanies who look like theyre dying ya you know the ones yea i wish they knew how to dance
"If I was a stripper, Id dance to Blood Orange and then guys would be like your different than the other girls, then Id rob them blind"
Which it the best type of dance overall in your opinion? (comment if other)
  She was a doll when she hit the scene...I even dragged a buddy of mine to the one concert 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np I Say A Little Prayer by The Radios on  
Now playing What I Got Is What You Need by The Uniques [Unafilliated] music best hits rock pop dance on 
"Balthazar is a priest and Kali is a painter, with a formal dance"
"It does not matter where I am, if self esteem by the offspring comes on I will sing my heart out and dance"
 i'd like to see him try and dance in 8-inch heels in a 2-hour show while trying to sing at the sam 
Anyone who knows me way back knows i used to make trillers and dance all the time. I seriously just start back doin it after YEARS.
+ hoseok was the only one who noticed my arm is bleeding so he put a band aid on it and smiled at me then bangtan p 
"Coachella dance parties, shoulder rides, spiral runs, surf lessons &amp; hours and hours of spirit animal connection. 8 "
JUST DANCE 2 &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
"  thank you guys for choreographing ""Dionysus"" by  It is by far my favorite choreogr "
 Cant pick a fave but 1- geez ma I got my headgear on 16 candles. 2- final dance off in girls ju 
"jaemin outdid all models out there plus hes an actor and knows how to sing, rap and dance???? he cooks for his memb "
I'd have energy to dance til the end of the night 
Im currently watching a couple on the dance floor w/ Bluetooths in their ears... YES they BOTH have on a Bluetoot 
"Dance Cover (A-Chan) -  Brazil - Electro World - Perfume.  
I love you Perfume  "
"  Okokok. 

Yes your opinion cool cool

But I mean. I love GOT. I do a goddam happy d "
(=^^=) (=^^=) Dance with the Kasha (=^^=) (=^^=)
"""Dance is the hidden language of the soul."" -Martha Graham"
 Unfortunately it is not. The ROK military conducts all the work due to the dangers of mines and unexplored or dance in the area.
kirishima is a little disappointed; he and bakugou were together almost the whole night and never did bakugou ask h 
"Im on that yak , i wanna dance ... come getcho man before I put him in a trance ..."
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy  via 
[NEW SONG] SPICA Ft. Space Cowboy - Your Dance OST. Dancing 9 NaraeNewsAtBot
" also, troye sivans bloom + dance to this = dinner and diatribes"
"  Industrial and goth, some trance and dance"
You make me wanna dance!
   yes hello come join the dance fam plz and thx
Absolutely loved getting to come to LJI to perform my new single Fuego at their pep rally! I had so much fun with 
"Supremacy MV


Supremacy




housemusic "
This is his kind of dance 
hello 911? i'd like to report a shorty fire burnin on the dance floor
" It's so true, Yena is basically everything we want in an idol in terms of talent but people usually jus "
Now mura masa - All Around The World 1RSIDANCE            
"at least with dance games I can get some exercise which overall improves my overall health, although i can just do "
"NowPlaying Club Traxx '99 - You Used To Hold Me (R N G Vocal Mix) - Razor N Guido  
1RSIDANCE "
i miss mini dance parties w just me n my best friend . 
      Can you imagine how successfu 
 please play I wanna dance with somebody on 4/20
"Heres some more gorgeous photos taken during our Royal Academy of Dance Ballet Examinations this weekend 
We are "
I respect you So very much. I've seen you dance. I have more rhythm as an old white woman than you had as President 
Get up and dance!   Chang Gui Duo -  The Fish Song.   
Posted withrepost   Posted withrepost   Our AMAZING Student Council is hosting their 2nd 
"the way hoseok legitimately devours every single one of his verses, like imagine being absolutely perfect in every "
 Says Trump the anti-Semite. Not possible to be pro the alt-right Israel government yet anti-Semiti 
"yungi au  

yunho is a dance teacher at this studio . mingi joins dance classes a year after he bumped into "
"START YOUR DAY RIGHT with Jenny Osoria! Danzatone Class at 8:30am!!! Rendezvous Dance Studio, Rockville MD 20852 "
Me &amp; Tori definitely used to dance to this  
 You know to dance?
International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers - Los Angeles Times 
  Its like the Limbo dance. How far can you go??
 No lie I seen it a million times just to learn that dance to that ot genesis song lmao
im rewatching bangtan dance practices and oml i will never get over jungkook in the white shirt n timbs
I remember listening to  in elementary school. I danced to her music back then AND I DANCE NOW. shes incredible
"Antis: Taehyung isnt part of the dance line. He cant sing well. He has a wide forehead. He cant draw.

Karma: TAE "
flagette practices used to be messwe would spin for hours hands bruised up and sht and then have us dance aft 
"i kinda hate how before i even opened this video i knew it was the dudududu dance from just dance
and then i opened "
" She had a sweatshirt on that said dance is music of the soul SO YES, TERRIFYING"
someone plz teach me how to dance
Do you slay?I certainly hope so. Much love to  for HOMECOMING via  slay slayqueen dance 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Duality
 - Nicky Romero
 "
Let's go baby and dance now Yalla (Deepierro &amp; Offir Malol Remix Edit) by Inna on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: I Don't Wanna Go On With You Like That by Elton John on  
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
Colorful dance mom iron on heat printing transfers vinyl wholesale  
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
"Diego can fuckn DANCE 

"
"Come and see Lubyyy's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Friday  
 "
"i just wanna guy that will pick me up,take me to dinner, and spin me across the dance floor is that too much to ask?"
He dance 
I get my dance moves from Nicole Cacciato and my music from Liv Frederick
The b-side of Eat It had a song called That Boy Could Dance. We used to sing it &amp; no one knew what we were talking 
"Those little brown dots on my skin (moles), are the only physical characteristic I like. 

Besides my legs. I dance, so I like my legs hehe"
there's a very specific type of excitement i get when listening to shinee and watching their dance vids and i've on 
when daddy comes home you always start a fight so the neighbours can dance at the police disco lights
Male birds in nature documentaries have set my standards for men real high. If a dude doesnt go all out and dance 
Now playing Let no man put asunder by First Choice music best hits rock pop dance on  
 Dance party 
Lets sing together sometime! Or we can dance !
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing It's Okay by Des'Ree on  
My favorite attendees of this early 2000s dance party are two gals who coordinated outfits and are practicing chore 
"heejin can dance, can sing, can model, can host, AND can draw we stan our multitalented queen "
"Woke up wanting to do plethora of random activities: to cook for someone, to watch Barasuara live, to eat Waroeng C "
I HAVE CONTAMINATED THE DANCE FLOOR WITH PRETZELS
Back to work!! Im feeling this one!! drop a follow music love hiphop rap dj art instagood follow like 
Let's go baby and dance now Love &amp; Happiness by First Choice on  
"My wife and I don't just have a song, we have a band. Whenever Electric Guest comes around we catch them live. We d "
LOVE!  I wish I could dance. 
"verivery be like: rest? don't know her
Miss us? here's two comebacks and five dance covers
btw we're going to japan "
If I ever see thebackpackkid in beating his ass for creating that corny ass dance
SALE!! Barbie 12 Dancing Princesses Magical Dance Castle Circle Top Stairs  
"One year after Aviciis passing, the void in dance music remains  "
please stop putting that white bxtch attempting to dance on the tl 
"A Dance Combination: Jazz Split, roll to stand, Chasse, Step, Straddle Leap"
[HERE?] BLACKPINK - KILL THIS LOVE | DANCE COVER | KPOP IN PUBLIC   via 
 Come on over to our house tomorrow or even on Sunday! Not much going on but a bunch of crazy kids 
 My baby girl made cards for the kids in her dance class  
Lmaooo I really wish I knew had to dance real good. I love dancing. Love it.
"  Music comes on, people dance. You can't explain that"
"okay, so i wanted to do the egg hunt on dance your blox off, multiple disconnections, and when I finally get a ""per "
  What is the Reggie Jackson dance 
"when imuhang next dance cover?  wassup mfs, naa mi compe this may w ignite, training and audition for crissa start "
 The chicken dance
Dance Gavin Dance really came out with beer called Strawberry Swisher pt. 1 I am shook
roppongi EVOLVED / TAG underground / Dance Dance Revolution X2
"Listening to Let's Dance (Single Version) [2002 Remaster] by David Bowie, on my Echo!"
"With the advice of her mother, Soojin learned jazz dance at a young age. She found that she really liked to dance a "
I think it's way harder to tweet along with a play rather than a dance performance.
 HAPPY 10TH  THIS DESERVES A DANCE DANCE ENERGY PARTY 
one dance by drake is just hennessy product placement
Realistically CB wont ever really fall off. He has the dance community wrapped around his finger. And whether we w 
It's  birthday today! He's better known as Daddy McFly from Back to the Future 1 &amp; Mr World on 
GOOD MORNING BITCHES MEMBERS OF THE LAB AKA MY FAVORITE HIPHOP DANCE CREW AKA THE WINNER OF WORLD OF DANCE SEASON 2 
Tonight the crew takes ova Mezcal Lounge in downtown Fresno ! Cumbiatron! X La Junta come dance with us! 
"If the whole world was watching 
Id still dance with you"
"Baraat essential No. 2 - The welcomees 
.
.
.
.
.
Wedding planned by the amazing 
.
.
.
.
. "
"Feels sooooooooo good to be back home! My heart is doing back flips 
Cant wait to move back for good !"
"Me and  backstage 
headlinertour blackburlesquequeen blackaesthetics blackarts yegarts edmonton "
 HS Senior class trip to Toronto. Buddies convinced me to drop in a rest stop bathroom. A few highlig 
"Savannahs last AHS dance recital!  She danced her heart out and left it all on that stage, touching many parents a "
i performed a piece monday for create and lemme tell you my soul misses dance so much thats the happiest ive felt in forever
Yall imma be came on and I got the most vivid flash back of  and I making up a dance to this song 
 Rinku should make venky dance on tamanche pe disco
"Travelling to Auckland, New Zealand? Find places to dance Salsa, Zouk, Bachata with  dance salsa"
Dance the night away
"Don't run, jump, or dance while playing the kazoo. Thanks!"
"After Gukurahundi, a Minister not the President was blamed.

After 1 August 2018 &amp; the   "
 I'd get a lap dance
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Let no man put asunder by First Choice on  
Showed up this to my dance teacherS and they said ur move is beautifully sharp af. Goodjob aiman! 
Do my money dance 
"Meanwhile, back in the ballet world: 
"
Mueller report gonna cause some damage!!! 
"Well sing to the limits of our voices, and dance on and on."
Now playing Dance With Me by 2 Brothers On the 4th Floor!
Let's go baby and dance now Love &amp; Happiness by First Choice on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Freddie James - Get Up And Boogie - Various Artists on 
"GF: It takes two to tango babe 
Me: it takes one to tap dance"
 i honestly dont know how i did lmao but whenever jisung appears in literally everywhere my heart goes uw 
OMG!!! Here We Go Again.. Another Dance Craze Sweeping The Internet... JINYUS - JOIN IN   JSO reggaemusic reggae
 i dont want an enemy or anything but I need for you to say the truth. If youre honest right now just ke 
Im so happy I just wanna dance or something
"Do you see how he lives? 

Do you see how the trancedance is eternal? 

Do you see the way he sees the w "
" Lyric: *blushes* .....no

Dance: *giggles*

Music: *smiles*

Sally: They are almost done *smiles*"
i know you dont know who i am but i wore these pants and im willin to dance like an idiot if ya just gimme the c 
 Em.. should i dance?
Get up and dance!   Kool &amp; The Gang -  Take My Heart (You Can Have It If You Want It).   
" me: I don't dance to any Spanish songs

Katy Perry: *releases ConCalmaRemix*

me: "
"IF YOU WANNA DO THE CUPPLE DANCE IN BALLROOM AT TRENZA,A PLACE WHERE YOU CAN MEET NEW FRIENDS, DANCE, RELAX AND HAV "
I dance my ass off and had this one girl completely naked
"Join us Saturday April 20th for DR.FUNK MIND BODY &amp; SOUL BAND IS ONE OF THE BEST DANCE BANDS IN THE INDUSTRY, SOULF "
" I hope he buys you flowers
I hope he holds your hand
Give you all his hours
When he has the chance
Take yo "
 why does she dance better than i do
Ask me to do vape tricks if you see me Honestly it feels so good I love doing them and if I can make you have a chi 
 cant find we live on borrowed time anywhere. Please how can I get your version! Trying to get it f 
"She makes me dance.
She makes me sing.
My amazing wife is my everything! "
" Swimming in an unmade cloud,
        Drinking in a formal gown
You tell me that you love to dance,
But you don' "
"hey guys!! let hailey have fun!! if you have the opportunity to take a dance class taught by your fave, chances are "
"Dance friends just hit a little differently, you know??? "
Guys I think we've reached the age where people don't know ddr is short for dance dance revolution help
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB I Stay In Love by Mariah Carey on  
the way they dance to the music 
thinking about: euijin killing the bad choreo on dance war but not even the professionals acknowledging it???? bruh 
"Watch Auburn dance, sing along to fan song 'We've Got Jared' - 247Sports Watch Auburn dance, sing along to... - "
watching white people dance is sport
This guy asked my mom to dance &amp; me &amp; my dad are dying lmao 
We gon make yo hoe dance wit the devil its October 7th shout my boy dada
 grad Dylan Seders Hoffman has created a powerful senior dance thesis for  Kudos Dyla 
  Ive heard this song and dance since Nebraska joined a real conference.  I remember b 
do yall know how long i have to dance to kpop in my room alone in the dark at night to burn off all these calories 
I just wanna learn how to dance like Ricardo
"It wouldn't be a party without you BIGOLIVE &gt; dance Hi GuysDance Fun.   
 "
Kontrust - Dance 
  One of my faves is from the recommendation of a coverage writer who changed 'solo fem 
Shall we dance?
"WHEN WILL I EVER, DANCE LEJIND  "
"Madhuri has had more palaces erected for her to dance in than like... anyone, really"
Marquei como visto Game of Thrones - 5x9 - The Dance of Dragons  bancodeseries
Cheeeee!!!!!! Gbedu don drop Low- Larry Gaga ft Wizkid. My leg don dey do legwork none stop because I don too da 
HOW THEY GONNA START IT OFF WITH THE DANCE BREAK YOU WANT ME TO DIE
"LETS KILL THIS LOVE! 

RAM PAM PAM PAM PAM PAM PAMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM

Here my dance cover of 
BLACKPINK - "
Legit breaking my foot has given my the largest setback ever. I miss dance and they wont even let me do ballet in 
"  Just move your hips. And hips don't lie.

(Dance without fingers)"
dude watching all the really good people dance makes me sad and im trynna figure out how they got that good like W 
I need someone fun to come out and dance with me
not to mention his signature dance. his sleek movements and body line really make me go uwu thats a major reason w 
 Honestly had a solo dance party in my living room and I feel rejuvenated
Been talking about him since 2015 but then he did a dance and you guys started sucking his dick. 
oh so when she drops to the ground to seductively dance she gets screams of praise but when i do it i get asked to 
"Tenwin are a powerful dance
Xiaokun are a gorgeous voice
Luhenyang... but I like it"
" Chums! Destiny wants us to see more of  Also, more dance parties. Please bring on more seaso "
Its a happy dance for any writer or author when doable shortcuts can be used to produce a book draft fast. Get t 
"i dont think im the intended audience for praise dancing. 

because every time i watch someone dance, this is me: "
"Your Heritage is your  proud!

organizeyourdrawer active fit fitness indaianbloggers "
"Nike Studio Wrap 3 Fuchsia Glow Pure Platinum Training Shoe



nike dance yoga pilates "
Best rock pop dance music Now Deliver Me by INXS on  
"Check out ""Dark Cool Dance Music"" - background music for videos &amp; media -  royaltyfreemusic "
"Today's Dance YouTube Video Loud Luxury's Body on My (feat. brando, Pitbull &amp; Nicky Jam) "
"With  &amp;  we present A Tribute to Begums &amp; Baijis of Bollywood - an evening of stories, musi "
My daughter and I watched. Hurt my hip trying to dance like those young ladies BeyonceHomecoming
jennie And rose dance better than Lisa lmao i don't understand the hype. And jennie sing better than jisoo too. my god!!!
"Airplane Recording Behind - Daehwi 

1st, Airplane is a song that I gifted to Iz*one this time.
It's a song of "
 That's awesome!! Also going to college to dance is like in my dreams lol!!! But it would be cool to see it!
 Unfortunately some people still buy his song and dance. Hopefully not enough come October
"These 3 see no reason to act their age, and we LOVE it! 

Leo, 67 yrs young, is the baby of the group.  He works a "
 ok youd def be center then if u can sing dance rap and have visuals... BRYANT HWAITING
    Seriously? That is an ignorant blasphemous remark
in america all u have to do to become famous is dance at walmart
Taetae did a lil dance when an Army yelled BTS TAEKOOK he is the cutest baby and ....oh ya taekook realtaekook 
Beyonc is an awesome talent but you are treading on sacrilegious waters when you compare a music icon who not only 
"Why am I so sad watching Daniel smiling so brightly, watching his obvious enjoyment, the slight dance movements he "
" No  if shorty pull up again ima just ask her if she wanna dance. Thats pry why she was pissed at us, "
 First Dance only real bitches know this song
I wonder if I'll ever get to dance on a stage some day... That'd be cool.
Men Without Hats - Safety Dance 
" And you definitely, definitely,  definitely don't want to see me dance."
Dance of Shikigami
Oh I think I know what Jennie's wearing! It's like one of those hip scarves that I wear for belly dance 
"7 Rings 
7RINGS Dance ArianaGrande danceon dancedancedance DanceOff2019 arica chile Dancehall "
Jetzt bei 1LIVE: Mando Diao - Dance With Somebody
Get up and dance!   The Ones -  Flawless.   
"  I love the selfie camera the dance shaku shaku, the thing sharp die I swear, my love fo "
 yes sis
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Fu-Gee-La by Fugees on  
Sexy dance penalty lol JHOPE  BTS   
 As  and I like to say dance. Just dance.
I don't dance with the devil sorry
When your almost 2 year old runs to the dance floor cause the DJ is playing soca  Truly a product of her parents!
I cant wait to cry and dance to The 1975 again at Coachella Ive been THROUGH IT today
Let's go baby and dance now S.O.S. (Let The Music Play) by Jordin Sparks on  
 Late to the dance again...story of my life...Ive been informed today that my ... are passive aggressi 
 And why shouldn't it be like a dance? Opponents both sensing the others' movements through the Force. SWPB
"

TeaCeremony [Untapped Cities]This event features live drum performances (Taiko), a tradit "
" Well said Nancy, God bless you! Thanks for the kind words. Hopefully your sleep is better tonight t "
The bicyclist loudly whistling The Safety Dance just made my night
"

TeaCeremony [Good Housekeeping]We whizzed past Mt. Fuji to Kyoto by bullet train for a be "
"My dance-workout is named The Tea Tree Oil Microbe Obliteration. . .   Tomorrow, I will eat a pizza, then diet and "
awww they dance! Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch 
"Bollywood ,hoopla,classical Danceteacher "
hey remember when a.c.e fucking cried on stage while singing last dance?? me too
  Jennie's vocals are better. she can rap and dance better too. jisoo can't do anything
 SKSKSKS OMG IM SO DUMB!
The best funk dance clubbing music nowplaying by on 
"IF they really want to 'protect the earth' Go and Sing in a 

FRACKING FIELD 

Dance around that - will do a shed l "
"Dancing can be a great way to stay fit for people of all ages, shapes and sizes. Go out with your partner and dance "
 hell Nah...I legit had tears about 20 minutes ago..wonder what happened at that damn 
"haha hes mad that these gen z people have cell phones all the time, but also mad that they dance at concerts? Go "
"everyone needs to watch chuck e. cheese having a fortnite dance competition at least once in their lifetime
(chuck "
i wanna dance lol i feel good
Still cant believe I got to dance with  So amazing to see my inspiration at work. SomeoneGreat 
2 of those 5 minutes it's basically taeyeon just going anywhere and everywhere and doing that pubg dance
"I gave $20 to  today. Ballet Hispnico is America's leading Latino dance organization, bringing ind "
 bro u still got dat big willie dance video
omg? i've always had my focus on kai and xiumin everytime nanonood ako ng The Eve dance practice nila and i failed 
I checked on logi &amp; hes currently dancing on the dance floor with his grandpa 
I like dance
 should I sing and dance cheer up ?
My granddaughter dance with Mr Bunny today. 
Bruh if he taugh me to dance hed give up in a split second 
  She's doing her rain dance right now
"nakakamiss naman ang Royal Family! grabe pa rin talaga yung artistry nitong si mumshie  

i just ho "
 I haven't seen any of these small guys make a big impact yet across the 16 teams in the dance. It' 
- LAX Hair Studio  TheBlast  Dance
idk what i would do with myself if i saw lisa's swalla dance live
im trying to learn bwl dance hahahahahaha easy dance my ass
"Soon as I hit this dance floor, its gon flood. Lookin like a damn zoo with all these cougars, my faves"
 on  J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy 
 Whew. I feel awful for her. Hes already abandoned their marriage with his emotional abuse. He has to 
"190420 iz*one airplane behind
""airplane is a song i have gifted to iz*one, it is a pop dance track that begins with "
"2019 Irish Dance Drama World Champion congrats to all of the dancers, parents and teachers who made it possible. I "
"BeYoNc iS oVeRrATeD 
sHe CaNt EvEn SiNg 
AlL sHe DoEs Is LiPsYnC 
cAn ShE dO a fLiP tHo
ShE cAnT eVeN d "
airplane dance practice or else- 
I maintain that you need more talent to be on rpdr than ALL other reality shows COMBINED you have to dance/sew/act/ 
Just played: Rebel Dance - The Observer All-Stars - Trojan Dub Box Set 1(Trojan)
Watching Beyonc taking about HBCUs...yea I did wanna go to Mississippi Valley State to follow my dad...but God ha 
Joclyns is literally just a holy cross dance
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino I Try by Macy Gray on  
 as someone who took the time and learned this dance I am offended 
army supermarkets mocking miso like hoseok didnt do a dance to kkpp  keep up baby i thought you stanned 
yethhh im going to dance bwl during our school's night performance!!!
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby In The Stars (Galaxy Mix) by Icona Pop on  
RSPCA: damnit this posted in the kitchen people dance like does hearts screams 3 kill everytime continue to become aw yeah
I looks like the team could fill-in for the UCLA Dance Team! 
Ill Show You The Best Dance Moves You Ever Seen That Would Make Elaine Proud  Just5MinutesAlone 
Kid had anokay time at the dance. Some of the older kids were being a bit mean to him but he stuck it out. Proud of him for trying.
" I think his condition today is not good, he has many mistake and in the encore his dance is not as strong "
 Good! Their campus was insane! The scene shop is huge bails and they have so many dance studios youd love it
"That Mikko-Wilson dance was a beautiful dance. These Avs are playing so loosy-goosy right now. Just a pleasure to watch.

3-1 in the 2nd."
im &amp; the gym listening to Beyoncs live Homecoming album &amp; wow i look like an idiot trying not to dance
"""Wait... where was Kristen?"" and then cutting to her alone on the dance floor with her tongue out and waving glow s "
"I know it's a small thing, but seeing white people form a dance circle at a bar/club just sorta makes my night. Ya know?"
"  The ""Fluffy panda"" dance...bring it "
petition for bts to drop a dance practice video of dionysus with their ancient greek god robes
Wanna dance with the loml to  cover me up all night 
"Its a universal truth that bad guys  &amp; gals who play dirty, always win.  Sadly played out too often in life but th "
  chicken dance op lmao
"  Ofc she's from The Lab
The Lab is an amazing dance group
Y'all should check them out
They're amazing"
 Out popping bitches on the dance floor 
"QueenSAMBdayCountdown 
Day 2 :Fav intro 
My all time fav intro scene of my love  from "
" Dance, you sexy Goddess"
"We got happy dance worthy news! [can't say what yet, just HAPPY] w/  "
 i tried to translate this but it didnt work
Been waiting for this day all week. Its Dance Music &amp; Little Fish!!!! WAracing
Okay but is it weird if my first dance at my wedding is teenage dirt bag or am I just drunk
 HES GOT THE DOOR EDITS AND THE DANCE MOVES
Me and major Lazer are starting a dance party
"People can copy anything; your mode of dressing, the way you talk, walk, dance, sing, cry, but they will find it ve "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Thinking About You
 - Axwell &amp; Ingrosso
 "
when you give a white guy a lap dance 
"  Thanks, Nana!!! Celebration dance!  "
"NOW Horoscope  
1 RSI DANCE 
 France
"
"OnAirNow Yellow Claw Feat. DJ Snake &amp; Elliphant - Good Day 
1RSIDANCE 
 
"
"OMG what a howler. Reality Bites has it all  action, adventure, love and an interesting mating dance. "
" When my father told me in front of my sister that he loves her more than me.

Gatau sih dia serius atau "
yall should see how i be getting out the bed and trying to make it to the bathroom. ima just start pissing on myse 
they may not understand the lyrics but their hearts beats as one as they jump and dance to the rhythm  
 I can hold a note bc I do musical theater Im just not Beyonc level obvi... but vocal wise I feel like I 
  please drop the dance practice  
"stanning poland, like being really into swing dance, is part of the body of catholic teachings that the theologian "
Update: I paused halfway through cause its a long doc and because I NEEDED to dance to some full-length Beyonc so 
dance line pc pls :&lt; 
"So...
Baby can we dance?"
" Yup, it is. The track heard here is ""Ripple Dance,"" off the 1980 album Make Up City. "
  This man has the weirdest dance moves sometimes 
Lmaoo our DANCE days. Tuesday nights  Highschool was desmadre
G/DWe tried dancing the Robbon-Bra gymnastics and the LALAN dance of Wacoal.  Wacoal chosen us as official dancer 
Never thought Id be the one teaching someone to dance salsa
Imma dance on you at the most random times.
Happy Easter Happy Spring Happy Happy Everything! GodBlessYou @ Karen Gronsky School of Dance 
"When I say I'm gregarious, what I really mean is I will dance like there's an entire pool of my friends, family, an "
I love Dance Factory Radio Chicago they be playing some fuckin bangers
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Let no man put asunder by First Choice on  
      FAKE FAKETY FAKE FAKE 
"Blood On The Dance Floor - ""REIGN OF TERROR"" [Official Audio]  via "
 drop the dance practice
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby In The Stars (Galaxy Mix) by Icona Pop on  
This could be us but  but  is the only one who can dance  
i have the sickest dance moves on the team
Dance of the cows and cats for autonomous cars.   
rock pop dance classic hits now: The Best Disco In Town by The Ritchie Family on  
You know what I hate? Cis white men who think they can dance
"ALBUM REVIEW: ""From now on, Till the Dance Do Us Part is the new standard by which all pop-punk-rock bands will be "
 Save the last dance for me.
Hey   check out  dance moves!!! GodsPlan Drake Dance WetNWildToronto 
" 
Capo
Let Her Go
Passion for dance"
"Pretty sure if you play this over my corpse after I die, I will come back to life to dance to it. Also I have zero "
 Drake - one dance
[MEDLEY GOT7s SONGS IN PUBLIC] Dance Cover By The Will5 From VIETNAM  via 
  Depends where the church is located but small churches need to do better about outreac 
Yeah so me and mom just had a whole dance session to the beyonce movie 
Now playing Into The Groove by Madonna music best hits rock pop dance on  
dancepartyfriday  Show off your optic assets with Rashell Cosmetics Liquid Eyeliner while you get funky on the D 
"Like im still in awe how the hell Beyonce do full out dance moves, still singing in perfect pitch, not one time so "
"whenever my XOXO album is on shuffle and i hear his voice, i just kfjsjkjsh bitch it's all coming back to me. the m "
 Now you can dance cheek to cheek
I don't wanna slow dance in the DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARK
Father Knows Best: Bud Takes Up The Dance | Season 1 Episode 1 (Full Episode) 
"Kill This Love by Blackpink   

Its our first ever sibs dance cover!! 
Ohh the things we do for t "
 SEXY DANCE
" Totally agree with you,  I also like the scene in Vivacious Lady where Ginger &amp; James Ellison are teachi "
If it was one thing I wish I was good at I wish I could dance yo!!
World Rhythm Festival 2019 Saturday Dance Party Free!  
never wanted to dance has been playing in my head on repeat 
ny dance line means the world to me and i would be dead without them
Im gonna learn the Everybody Mad dance routine even if it kills me lmao
" virgo venus sag moon virgo mercury!!
&amp; by pinegrove + i hope you dance by lee ann womack "
" TROYE SIVAN AND ARIANA GRANDE  
           
Troye Sivan - Dance To This ft. Ariana Grande "
Yo if you wanna check my dope dance moves come to Kierans because its dead AF downtown and we have Jacuzzi Puma t 
Omg everytime i played this on just dance 
" I can't wait for SDNY and the others take everything from all the tRumps, I really hope he looses "
Music make her dance and money make her smile
 The problem is your hype man is actually the one making u feel like you can really dance...
  If I were to remix one of your dance would you repost like deadass B?!
"Im at an Irish bar &amp; hey playing dancehall, Im tempted to dance ."
 Love to dance tho
Another year and another bday in the books for you I love seeing you smile and now seeing as you Introduce me to yo 
"  after watching Burlesque all I want is to run away is show my dance, your Goddess"
 Heres a fact: theres also people DYING to dance!!! Wake up
"my friends havent been dancing so i switched from bottle to draft, as soon as i do, they hit the dance floor HOW RUDE"
One of the best dance performance I have ever seen in a malayalam movie....Lucifer   WalsuchaD'souza
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Born Again &amp;40;Babylonia&amp;41;
 - Sunnery James &amp; Ryan Marciano Ft. Nicola Fasano, Adam "
 Listen to the hampster dance song
drop bwl dance practice you coward 
It's been 4 days today and I still can't belive how the most anticipated movie of all time Kalank destroyed by the 
 Thats a story! Are yall ripping Same Dance on this tour?
"luhenyang being dance legends, SIGH"
" TROYE SIVAN AND ARIANA GRANDE  
           
Troye Sivan - Dance To This (Official Audio) ft. Ari "
Now playing: SARAH CONNOR FEAT. NATURAL / JUST ONE LAST DANCE
"Hes honestly such a respectful person. First, he clarified that he didn't said the 'n' word on his song and even ad "
Dance like you are from the Irish
The good news is that Beyonc has given me the strength to dance to Diva homecoming live in my room for 15 min stra 
Kyle thinks Im joking when I say Im trying out for the Flyers dance girls but jokes on him because 1. Im going t 
"Me: I dont dance 

Everyone Im comfortable with: LMAO LIAR

Me: I MEAN"
  Bloody fabulous.  Made me want to get up and dance.
   Please Beyonce's signature pose or dance move. Are your parents fans of Beyonce 
*does molasses dance* 
my brother ruined my dance party &gt;:(
"Can this please become a new line dance  ??
newgirl "
I just wanna go out &amp; dance  I dont even care to drink 
"Melissa Etheridge  Stateline

You Used to Love to Dance

Wild &amp; Lonely

Woman Like You"
hoy i was listening to How Does a Moment Last Forever tapos naimagine ko i was wearing a gown then someone's waitin 
I always wanted to be a dancer why didnt my mom put me in a dance class or sum
Literally in australia last year I was at a bar and some stranger took my hand and wanted me to dance with him and 
"After watching just the first hour of Beyonce Homecoming, I'm getting my ass in the gym and taking dance lessons lmao."
Going to the mall next week with like 8 other people to look at dresses for the dance. I have a life?? And friends???
to dance with my father again:(
 Lol. It always amazes me how some women can seriously dance in heels.
 it's fire asf  ... i like that lil dance
        
"Like imagine making a dance to Niki songs, Bruno mars songs, I want to make my own dance to Kill this love and a few ten songs, Dalaga, etc"
Imagine being so much of a TDS suffering bastard that you have time and find a way to turn something this positive 
I want to go dance
I'm gonna go dance like Dua Lipa
My parents want me to pledge so bad but... I cant dance 
This song has me wanting to dance. Madame Madonna Maluma MadameX 
 I just want to know one thing....when are we going to get the John Wall dance on Whiskey Cavalier?!? Keep up the good work!
"Girls girls girls is more of a dance song than a vocal song, so the vocals won't be really prominent. No more dream "
  Wait- he's buying ANOTHER boat??
   Because how else would we have gotten the Ross/Monica dance routine? 
Just recounted my 9th grade dance where my date ignored me all night to clog the chocolate fondue fountain with too 
"British Doctors May Soon Prescribe Art, Music, Dance, Singing Lessons "
 DANCE PARTY ??!!?
Let's get in formation blackpink killthislove choreography ending finale concert withdrawals dancelife 
 Of course he's Filipino  haha we do love to dance with flair
slightly nervous...but cant wait for dance practice tomorrow
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Thank U by Alanis Morissette on  
 I will. She did an amazing job this year with the womans team. Both the mens and womens teams made it to the dance.
 Screw social standards and flu! Let's dance 
"Coming up Fiesta ! Lunch &amp; Music 
Sunday April 28th 1pm
bring your shoes to dance !!!!!

Dress up sexy too thanks ! "
 i mean who doesn't like chunghaaaa?!!! I can't get over to most of her songs cause it makes me wanna 
"      Don't click it its,a bad gateway"
"when music was fun with that soul funk twist 

disco funk flashbackfriday friday flex dance soul "
Me trying to pole dance  
Does Mangos play good music to dance to?
I would do elaborate dance routines in these. For myself. 
this four year old does the dance better than that girl everyone was collectively making fun of the other day 
people do that lil one two step and swing they body wit the arms first swear they doin an african dance that shit s 
I just do my dance and cuff my pants and twist my fingers w/my hands 
"This dance is lame no way too look cool, but my people need to stop  "
The shallow dance remix is something I hate but am required to sing its called torture
omg cristian &amp; I love to dance! we dance all the time in the room 
I know theyre planning something 2 bully me at the dance cause suddenly I saw Bobby &amp; Suzy trading notes in class 
 Why do you dance like this
Now playing I Don't Wanna Lose You by Tina Turner music best hits rock pop dance on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Breathe Again by Toni Braxton on  
 I saw it more as interpretive dance to how upset you were
i kno i cant dance but iono who told this person they can dance.
" awwh, well i hope you have fun and dance the night away!"
Let's go baby and dance now Can't Get You Out Of My Head by Incognito on  
whats the first ariana grande song youve ever heard ? mine was put your hearts up omg &amp; we did a dance to it .... it was tragic
can yall believe maca was worried bc she didnt know how much she was gonna dance today 
"      well, Cummings was on stuttering"
" Lyric: I'll be sure to never say it again then 

Music: Will see about that

Dance: I wounder what the kids are going to look like"
THE DANCE.. my favourite of them.. these two have such a bang on chemistry!!! They look DREAMY together Speechle 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Stuck In The Middle With You by Stealers Wheel on  
"In other news currently balancing 3 part time jobs, full time school, AND being on a competitive dance company hone "
"APRIL 20 (SATURDAY) DOLSaturdays Class Schedule.
.
*G-Force Dance Center (GDC) OPEN CLASSES are open to all. No me "
Its a good night to dance on me
        
   this is how you dance
Norman Brown - Soul Dance
[ DEBUT // 15.08.30 ] Red Velvet - Ice Cream Cake + Dance Break by Matchaday @ Kalibata City Square  matchabot
XELZAAR(1995): Greg was not impressed with Claire's 'joke' but he managed to retain his composure. Claire winked at 
" Lupe, wtf is this? I mean I dont know how to dance either peor no mms"
Does anyone know anyone selling dance Gavin dance tickets
 having a shower dance party w the new album 
I wanna join the Bahamians next time they do the dance where they all running around ts looked fun
 Gabriel Rios - Gold (Thomas Jack Radio Edit) EDM Dance
Atlantic Starr - Silver Shadow (Specially Remixed Version)  TheBlast  Dance
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Ring Ring
 - Jax Jones Ft. Mabel &amp; Rich The Kid
 "
   Call your Governor &amp;let him know you want them bussed to your state.  Let us 
"Have I told you lately that I love you... ahhhh. Such a good song to slow dance with  
"
Was just told I can dance like Chris brown  All I said was  thank you and walked away.
I need friends who can dance and choreograph a dance with me
The new  album is so good. I'm having a one man dance party in my room at 11pm and having the time of my life.
 You can't dance whilst you are driving. Dancing is more fun
competitive just dance should be an olympic sport
Well this is gonna make for some good new music. 
      Any more besides those two?
 stop I feel like you guys can both dance secretly this whole time and also Ive (unwillingly) heard jj hit 
"  Nah Dante you ain't winning this, you're merely adopted the dance. But these ladies have danci "
wanna dance the night away
"Jin , this suit, this dance  "
" ArtfulReading modules use the arts (visual, dance, drama, music) to promote SEL  "
Tonight I saw  dad turn on some Chris Stapleton in the living room so he could slow dance with his wi 
"however, the show was SO FUCKING LIT. did a wall of death to don broco, moshed like crazy to dance gavin dance, fel "
Make sure to check out some of our dancers at the IDT Dance Companys performance tomorrow at 11am in Bengston Audi 
 If you are courageous enough to step on the dance dloor with me it's on lol.
Ls dance recital tune. I Shazamd it during the show. 
The Reason I Dance
i cry so much watching world of dance that its a tad bit ridiculous
 i think evangelicals are allowed to dance and drink alcohol
"RM said Halsey looks like a little bird trying to learn dance choreography..cuteee 
 BTS  
"
Nowplaying SOL - KRD8 (Daybreak / dance in the dark)
" Can't wait to see you again at BronyCon, Gabby...just curious: if you're not busy with anything for t "
 I LITERALLY BINGE WATCH HER DANCE VIDEOS ALL THE TIME NO WONDER THAT TABLE CHOREOGRAPH LOOK SO CRISP OMG
 the kitchen dance scene just gave me fucking life. Youre my spirit animal who I wish was my best friend. SomeoneGreat
[First Place] OSU Genesis | LEGENDS Bollywood Dance 2019 | [ Front Row] HD 
"  when are the ""When's Dance Class?"" Shirts shipping?"
  needs to quit his day job and start a dance studio. goodfriday
 I swear sometimes Id be in public and the song would come on in shuffle and I would go like FUCK I have to dance now.
Group Chicken Dance   has the most serious TTRPG DnD5E ever on  called Trollhunters
"It is simply for your foolish claim that i dont make me dance, sing, or anything"
Im so determined to learn this everybody mad dance  lol
"
NataliaOsipova aka ExtremeNatalia
Truly Extreme flexibility, very good bodyLanguage, "
"put on the lil dance moves lmao  , wish i couldve won but aye today was fun thanks for letting me participate. "
"Can you dance?

Um i can literally make a whole new choreo for any music genre when im alone in my room

But if u "
Tonight Im back at  See you on the dance floor Houston 
Friends always saying I can dance if I want but I might get left behind but it's like damn if I don't dance and my 
MY two icons who saved the music dance and beauty industry. thank u for existing  
me doing the kpop public dance challenge 
" I do know Honky-Tonk was used earlier, describing Country Western Bars and gatherings. So its possible s "
"I really wish Karan Johar gave more dance numbers for her, seeing her in Tabaah Ho Gaye made me feel it wasn't enou "
"[GIVEAWAY] I am excited to collaborate with my friends  to spring"" up your fitness wardrobe. Good Luc "
" PLS omg he even started the song and got the best dance part at the bridge it really suit him so much, ac "
"If I was an alien, could I dance the watusi like this? bmoviemaniacs"
i bomg i dance
Dance Cover: BlackPink - Kill This Love 
You should see them dance!  drinking Cape Cod (cocktail) in Stetsons Nightlife 
Just got done w our hip hop dance. Its pretty cool 
currently in my underwear having a one sided dance battle against myself- im losing.
* hits the dance *  
 Congratulations!! I wanna dance in your wedding weyh 
No stream tonight! Im out of town with my fam and tomorrow my son has a dance competition! Ill be back on tomorro 
"My hip family doing cool things.
.
.
.
tiktok family cool dance dancing dancefam dancingfamily dancekids "
dance party of one to  right now.
When I become president were gonna have a Whitney Houston hologram singing I Wanna Dance With Somebody and Adam Le 
exited my body on the dance floor but not in a good way
"    Bruh idc Ill dance in the rain and catch the flu if I have to, my "
Leia suggests doing a dance and walk 10 km..
"I'm reading a fanfic and in it , someone said ""I dont dance "" and the whole fucking comment section turned into hig "
- Download ListenLive SoundcheckiRadio  TheBlast  Dance
dance till ur dead!!!
 NATIONAL DANCE WHO? HAHAHA
I just remembered we're going to my sisters dance thing on Sunday and I have to look nice heck
"This tree is hovering softly. Thanks, my boss for being willing to dance."
  i saw them in concert. you can literally hear them breathing inbetween dance breaks and pauses in their songs
" My bias ia Hitomi. She is multitalented. She can dance, she can sing and she is also savage. She is "
"I'll dance dance dance
With my hands hands  hands,
Above my head head head
Like Jesus said... "
when I say... I love my dance friends... I mean I LOVE my dance friends 
 I hate that this show has gotten so beat boy and hip hop centric. Yes that type of dance is exciti 
I wanna dance in living rooms on Friday and Saturday nights like my mama and daddy do
I would love to dance with a Wrothian sometime!!
Check Out Conga Kids Spring Dance Championship May 22 
"from what i recall, my frontal cortex is just a lil loose so my body is doing what my brain is, no hyper-awareness. "
What did Dyer ever do to deserve this Dance Gavin Dance collab beer and why cant I be home to grab some? 
 Doing the happy dance  Rey is staying!!
" Nature of the idol industry:
-Ludicrous schedules
-Bullshit diet plans 
-Aesthetic surgery for days "
"When we slow dance, I take off my shoes and stand on his feet because otherwise we suck at slow dancing together"
The people don't know how to dance to it this is so sad 
"Favorite Ginger dancing in a non-dancing film?  Mine is the dance contest scene in BACHELOR MOTHER!
TCMParty "
also! i got the spot to dance in the spring concert !!! she called me second and the other teacher was saying the c 
I saw Dance Gavin Dance for the first time tonight in 6 years and I cried the second song and Im not embarrassed to say it.
"When I wanted to get my super long hair chopped short? Hella supportive, only concern being getting it into a bun/p "
"Dance Cover Amazing (Black Lady) Cross Gene! CandY Brazil, I love so much Cross Gene. Cover YongSeok!   (YouTube - "
ill be performing for my finals... and guess what my smart ass thought  ill be dancing to the pheonix by linds 
if you arent the last one on the dance floor then you are simply not doing it right
Hope you Dance...... 
Did he just try to do that dance move all the kids and ppl doing now ? Lmao  this too cute  
"I was in line at morphe in front of an obviously very excited young (MUA in training ;) ) and her mom, and her mom "
 And here I am... Can't even move my finger... She is so good with all dance moves..... 
 I love how they always suddenly dance on set huhu
" Nahhh, like I practice stuff at home for exercise and can dance my ass off at a party but not a ""I "
"*Live music, I dont line dance, sorry everyone"
dance cover w  later 
 How about getting in amazing shape to dance and perform in the exquisite way she did? Total badass!
 I used to dance in Dallas / Fort Worth and I liked it during the winter and football season. Summer 
" Dont claim that! Get up and go for a drive, cut some music on &amp; dance, call &amp; talk to someone! Do "
"visit  
 Now Playing The Piano Guys - First Dance"
For reference sake FDT yung dance group ng UPRHS sksksks it's short for Filipiniana Dance Troupe 
Look at the coaches faces after  and  dance after Tatis's HR. Go Padres! 
"21+ to enter, but you can dance at any age. Trust."
Mannnn I aint even going to lie. I didnt like suge by da baby until I seen a girl dance to it then I was like I 
You are lost in a Taco Bell.  An ochre jelly dance into you asking for your phone number. What do you do?
"NAIC 2017 top 4 G3 VS Paul Chua, I did Swords Dance instead of Earthquake on the turn I protected Snorlax, instead "
"It's April 19, 2019 at 11:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
        
 So our school did THAT yesterday and I was proud to be in the dance :) 
 &amp;  both have albums coming out IM SOOOO READY TO DANCE 
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  dancehalllink JSO reggaemusic reggae dancehall
 Like a Girl makes me dance and ugly cry at the same time. I didnt know that was possible.
"Wow, was JUST thinking about one of my LA dance friends last night, &amp; would you believe he text me ten minutes ago saying he is in the A?!!"
Who was your first crush?  oooooooooooooooooooo si Alexis classmate ko sa orange dance studio  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Les Temps Changent by MC Solaar on  
Pagbati is an easter dance performed by three young ladies to joyfully celebrate the victory of the risen Christ o 
 Have you tried doing the take the L dance on them?
Flying out to LA and taking a dance class taught by one of your favorite choreographers &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
I wish I could just dance forever non stop
slow dance  marriage proposals | fights | hurt/comfort | sexual content |  by otokii 
Now playing Breakadawn by De La Soul music best hits rock pop dance on  
  That's pretty messed up... and I love that little Pivot dance :(
  A useless dance.
"it was a cheer dance mix, I remember  "
.BLACKPINK will perform at 10:15PM PT. Los Angeles time. [Coachella 2019 Curated LIVE.  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : This Is America &amp;40;Todd Terry, Louie Vega &amp; Kenny Dope Remix&amp;41;
 - Childish Gambino "
i can beat you AND p-san at just dance
I literally just bought 4 dance outfits 
" I like the dance move ! 

Seventeen is setted as the softie boys at the first "
Let's go baby and dance now Firestone by Kygo Feat. Conrad Sewell on  
"1 year of No Tears Left To Cry

3 Billboard Hot 100 (12 weeks inside top 10)
1 Billboard Pop Songs
1 Dance Club "
" THE MUSIC DANCE AND SING
THEY MAKE THE CHILDREN REALLY RING"
I love it when my former students get out of their cars to do a dance to make sure I see them when Im at a red lig 
"a bit cheeky, but leave a x if you would give me a lap dance "
"Please if anyone can help we would appreciate it. 
I'm raising money for Travel expenses for Irish Dance Competitio "
Whitney Houston - I Wanna Dance With Somebody 
 BTS was the group that fully got me into kpop back in 2014. I started learning the dance to boy in lu 
"If you wanna see me dance, pass me some liquor! Why yall aint tell me being drunk was that fun??"
 like pussy maryse manios nude pictures trinidad and tobago pussy beautiful naked cheer leaders free hot youporn 
"""I don't care about the fields; I don't care about the house; I don't care for anything but you."" I'll never have a "
"Ferdinand is the film that made me a John Cena fan.
Except for the dumb dance scene. I didnt like that part. But the rest of it? Gold."
rock pop dance classic hits now: Just Like Heaven by The Cure on  
 I LOVE U SFM
"READY BO vcs/camsexs
Full face 
full body 
striptis dance
Info RR DM
openvcs availvcs vcs 
vcsreal "
 Dance floor audience right Im wearing my us flag mcr hoodie
Hey everyone!!! So ya girl some love and go check out my new dedication dance video to  and Her daugh 
"We know who's not getting no sex tonight, and a lap dance could prolly be a blessing right???"
"

Check out this Ebay auction 

dance ballet cosplay"
 Dance and read A LOT
"Friday Night Schedule
Charlie
Alona
Gemma
Lonnie
Malaiya
Odette
Amber
Tiffany
Alice
Icy
are here more on the way  F "
You cant get rid of the default dance in the pre game menu no matter how hard you try 
honestly jin is one of my favorite people to watch dance there's something super endearing about him and the way he 
dont stop moving just dance out your feelings
"Life isn't about waiting for the storms to pass, it's about learning to dance in the rain."
OMG i swear im crying in the best dance practice 
I'm coming out and I wanna dance to this feeling!
And I can dance 
 Is it Basiji dance? Impossible!
A no-braindance answer to the so-called intellectual dance music coming from Raja Kiriks yennuariendra. Download f 
I know no one cares but this is the best dance video Ive ever seen in my whole life keone and mari are literally g 
i want to dance something from miku
"Endgame is gonna topple Avatar. I can feel it. And Ill dance on the grave of that dumb Alien Smurf film. 

9K "
 post yourself doing the choreography we know you can dance your a$$ off Nyle
If the music is right the crowd I could give af about really I will dance alone all night and be happy af
proof anyone can dance 
 I still took the sweetest shordy in grade 7 to the Halloween dance with the same outfit
Shet! How to dance like Lee Youjung??? 
Can't wait for the boy with luv dance practice bc the boys are gonna be so energetic and happy :(( having fun and shit :((((
i just wanna stay in smoke drink wine and have a mf dance party hello friends
"READY BO vcs/ BO/VCS
Full face 
full body 
striptis dance
Info RR DM
openvcs Recomended4BO availvcs "
"APRIL 20 (SATURDAY) DOLSaturdays Class Schedule.
.
*G-Force Dance Center (GDC) OPEN CLASSES are open to all. No me "
I need to dance this at my wedding on some Carrie and Mr. Big shit 
"Filipino lady at church: what is your daughter taking? Nursing?
Mom: shes a dance major
Filipino lady: "
" You can do a lot in 2 hours with alcohol, friends and people who can dance thoooo"
This was actually a pretty great bonding opportunity for me and my aunts. Being taught a line dance was like a rite of passage 
Me after my dance prof tells me that Ive lost weight when I come back from breaks when all Ive actually done is s 
 my gf wants to dance on stage for her bday
 this how we thought we looked in dance class LMAOO 
one time i went to a male strip club w my friends and we almost split a $20 lap dance evenly between the four of us 
 foreverpatriciafree: { DANCE WITH JESUS -NOT- THE WORLD } 
 Lmao I get up and dance to it! Youll see one day!
Dance Central Spotlight is coming to Nintendo Switch
Aye remember when Beyonc couldnt dance and sis had that struggle hip roll? 
      It's all they got. Russian collusion..t 
"  Cat paws, dance moves, the whole deal."
The 2x snapped with these dance moves 
Invincible break-dance   
"Gen z: 

older generations did crazy shit, how did they even survive?

Also Gen z: 

hey want to jump out of a movi "
 I'm assuming you dont mean an intense leg work out because I can barely STAND in the shower after those much less dance 
No lie the woah might be the most turnt dance to hit the scene since the nae nae
Those who dance are considered insane by those who cannot hear the music.
Dance Gavin Dance announce new milkshake beer  
 Hahaha 18 years of dance and all we did was the robot....
"READY BO vcsyuk/camsexs
Full face
full body 
striptis dance
Info RR DM
openvcs availvcs vcs 
vcsreal "
"The paperback of Red Wine and Black Roses is now available on Amazon. Doing Happy Dance
Amazon "
i wish i knew how to dance
"9.  Adorable ... well done, that horse  , err, man!

Plus more cute dance vids on their YT channel - jprinder1 - c "
 faints
"Tickets are available at X-Unified Dance Studio from 3-7 PM!

Don't miss the fun. Grab your tickets now!!!

For oth "
"[NewsFeed] In the Game of Gif Party, You Dance or Your Die  Its Friday, Game of Thrones i"
 the icon replied to me
Rowdy Rebel ft. Bobby Shmurda - Shmoney Dance (Official Music Video) [Di...  via  
&amp; if your friends don't dance they ain't no friends of mine dancefloornow
oomf wont respond to me until i post a dance cover im- 
      I dont do GoFundMe- agree 
Dance Central VR Gameplay on the Oculus Quest (Turn Down For What?) by CalebCriste vr oculus rift 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Like A G6
 - Far East Movement &amp; The Cataracs
 "
" That's because you're doing the lap dance wrong...

Slow and steady wins the race."
[cover dance] Apink - bubibu+Nonono remix (MBC 2013) by Awhite  ^^
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
"can you come back down? you two can ride your bikes, and dance, and laugh, and forget about such thing as time"
" Honey, you know The Royal Family crew? You should watch their videos on YouTube. Their dance is incredible"
held it down for  ... always been my direct dance mentor.....everyone in poison said I was a baby versi 
Shall we dance...?
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
ZHU - Light It Up (feat. TOKiMONSTA) [Official Audio]  via SongOfTheDay music dance feels
does hayley williams offer dance lessons
the black eyed peas did not deserve to become just dance background music
Conan &amp; Andy Richter Learn A Traditional German Dance  - CONAN on TBS  via 
team dance Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch 
   Yeah of course this will be fun. She may not like u who prefer to lost her digin 
Also second song in to dance Gavin dance my memory card was full  didnt realized til 2 minutes later I had a an 
"Some dance to ABBA, some dance to Avicii"
like a sun dance
 time to dance
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Think (About It) by The Lions on  
dance practice 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
" Why is BTS so undervalued ? Just because they are a band of guys, people think they are not worth it. Many "
" Well, shit.  There goes that happy dance album we were hoping for!"
"Loved this choreography from polegoddessnike at oaklandpoleanddance tonight! 
polekarri oaklandpoleanddance  "
 Oh the dance competitions will be a movie 
like a bitch could dance all day rs
 So nobody should dance at a Fleetwood Mac concert? You are weird.
 I think I better dance now
"Haiku Hands - Dare You Not To Dance

Tune in:  "
can someone animate me using the pizzer dance no oh aw man
I cannottttt with my lil sister doing the buss down thotiana dance. 
      That's his target audience- 
"PortlandPizzaWeek Day 5: ""BiCeP"" from bellapizzapdx, ""Spinach Artichoke Dip"" from  and ""The Belly "
"Don't lose being tired of being a backdancer.. already dance, push the table with the chair and then lift the chair "
Being me sucks bc I often feel the urge to dance but I can't dance for shit do you see my problem
for 3rd gen audtion please po  baka pede speech test muna pagawa sa kanila tulad baga'y handwritten e 
It was Shownu lol the way he dance and his manly vibe catch me but right now Im wonho biased  
Dance modern talking - Father and father dance music 
"  we're not mutuals but i NEED to reply this

seokin vocal king dance king rap king visual king scream king"
"Ready BO/VCS CIKARANG AREA YAH SAY
Full face 
full body 
striptis dance
Info RR DM
openvcs Recomended4BO "
" Charles Dance is the strongest for me, Tywin is easily my favourite villain in the show. I think you sa "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts""  "
BLACKLANDS - Dance of the witches Premier rock metal music radio at  playing the newest 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Donald Glover needs to never dance ever
 You need to be able to follow dance moves for that
friday night are for country dance parties with my friend and her fam
 Nobody was tryna see Mike on the dance floor 
when i go to college i gotta dance g i miss it.
 busting out some dance moves tonight. reliable source says he got his moves from his momma! 
"Dreamday Setlist:

BDZ
L.O.V.E
SWEET TALKER
Say it again
The Best Thing I Ever Did
ONLY YOU
STAY BY MY SIDE
Heart "
jseph is LITERALLY the funniest person i know... HIS CELEBRATORY DANCE IM CRYING? 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
 cat's dance
 R Truth?!!!?Dance Break?!?! Rlly??!
" Thats a full dance card kind of day! I generally like being busy, although I seldom am actually busy. "
 Never let u go or first dance
"  It's a cool game, but so much of your success in comp is based on your teammates, because "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" via NYT  "
Nigga ready to dance ... play baseball... and bring out a hot tray of sizzling chicken n shrimp from  Fridays
"Hanbin's ""I like Don't Know What To Do"" on their previous VLIVE makes my heart jump  And he even pushed Jinhwan to dance that. Gods "
 child*sh gamb*nos signature dance
TikTok for those dance moves 
"Part 2 of the 44th Birthday Party Tomorrow:
Please Join me for a 4/20/19 Pop Up Dance Party at
Harborside Inn, 185 "
Seeing my cousin slow dance with his wife on his 60th birthday and seeing how happy he was honestly the best thing 
"My last year here is bittersweet. , gonna miss my students, my many (nieces/nephews) and dance babes."
   100% true. Nothing makes USSF and MLS dance like ProRelForUSA.
Madman Marz's theme song has a snazzy beat that I can dance to Madman thelastdrivein 
" this song will always make me think of lucky, i'd play it for him and he'd kind of do this "
Good evening beautiful people  out having a little fun  I might just do a little dance  great DJ happy Fri 
"And all the kids they dance, all the kids all night
Until Monday morning, feels another life"
Listen to The Dance is Yours (MIX TAPE MIX)from FREEZDJ MAJESTIC/GOOD SUMMER MIX TAPE by FREEZrambcamp np on 
I'd love a dance remix of this. MadManMarz TheLastDriveIn
have some Coors tallboys gonna make some Mike Tulsa dance edits stay tuned
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Zeenthesis Progressive Ep 018 by ZeenaChristy Listen again or download  
its so cute how birds love to fuckin dance
"I dont dance with chicks at the bars because THEY cant dance, dont get it twitsted I can bag but if she cant da "
its so crazy how time flies i swear i was just a 12 year old girl in the dance moms fandom and playing minecraft
Not knowing how to dance bachata or salsa is kicking my ass rn 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
You dance . I dance . Lets be friends  
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
"Joaqun, Emilio, and Emiliano doing the fortnite dance together NOW THIS IS THE CONTENT WE DESERVE!!! 

VIERNES ARI "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Survive
 - Don Diablo Ft. Emeli Sand, Gucci mane
 "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Nothingness - live via   - Friday Night Dance Party Ep 2 
"Dog walking at 4am, CPR training 8am-12pm, Ballroom dance class 1-3pm, and a birthday dinner at 8pm. I think it's s "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Killer/Papa Was A Rollin' Stone by George Michael on  
Tune Into Friday Night Dance Party!
I really just want to dance
Gonna take my second dance class todat at  excited!!!!!!
Just Dance on switch is so much fun
"A tragedy:
I was never able to dance with a fellow dancer because life happened"
    That little dance he does in the beginning is magical
" Did she send smoke signals, or do an impeachment dance? I bet she has lost her peace pipe."
Idk where this came from but I have sooooo much energy lmaoo I need to dance it out
"my foot hurts worse today, and now the heel is hurting too :(((( i'm so confused and sad bc i'm going to a wedding "
Cant wait to have a mans that I actually like so I can seduce him to dance for you by Beyonc hehe
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Its crazy how Carameldansen was the weeb anthem of the late 2000s. No discussion no farce if you were a weeb and yo 
"   
My Nephews Dance To 
FEEL YOU NOW!
To him everything is the Macarena "
" I hadnt known till this event how much their daughter loves it. Her siblings dance, sing, act and do pag "
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" Check out via NYT  The New York Times"
"girl i love it when you dance like this you make a man wanna speak spanish commo si llama , sy bonita , sy mi casa , su casa."
NCT 127 'Wakey-Wakey' Dance Practice 
"I hope she can dance with her outfit and no wardrobe malfunction  
BLACKPINKxCoachella_D2 "
"Added ""What Is It"" by Kideko to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify  "
"Added ""Foundation"" by John Dahlbck to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify "
Im I wanted to do Material Girl for the school talent show but didnt because boys dont dance to Madonna year 
"Added ""Black Perl - TR473"" by 212fahrenheit to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify "
I used  to discover Mr. Tambourine Man by Bob Dylan.    to dance beneath the diamond sky
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Zeenthesis Progressive Ep 018 by  Listen again or download  
Its crazy how Carameldansen was the weeb anthem of the late 2000s. No discussion no farce if you were a weeb and yo 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: I Love A Rainy Night by Eddie Rabbitt on  
acting like kids &amp; attempting to dance in parking lots
"Me: I want to dance like 
Hen: if you bounced like that youd pee your pants."
 flashjokes best sexy dance teensexsword sex raw louise topheavyamateurs me and my sex cums fishing vote black p 
I will never understand why people record themselves dancing when they know they cant dance.
I cant really dance I be jiggin
 The dance ? Lmaooo girrrrrrrll I got like the first 8 counts down and thats it 
  Girl I know what you mean. Made me wanna dance that type a dance you know. I was getting 
"Help to clear Hoseok's searches 

Hoseok  is Beautiful 
Hoseok is Cute
Hoseok is Handsome
Hoseok is Pretty
Hoseok i "
Lol @ him snatching the mic &amp; going into a dance move  
"Friday night family dance party. 

Soundtrack:  (my dream woman)"
"Her blonde ringlets dance around her shoulders as if warning you to get away. He gaze was piercing, even if it was welcoming."
Maybe they haven't released the dance practice of limitless because the rough version mv hasn't reached 10M views y 
Man   pump pump pump it up   u got served dance routine ready ... nigga dressed like he ready to drop down on both knees into a puddle ..
"if i tweet at bts everyday till my homecoming dance in 2020, i wonder if theyll come to it"
"JOACOS LITTLE DANCE IN THE BEGINNING!! AAAAH THEY ARE TOO PRECIOUS IM GOING TO EXPLODE!!

VIERNES ARISTEMO
 "
 Lmfaooooooo yeaaahhh. Cuz when little kids are waiting up by the phone for their daddies to call them to 
I swear to god if I could dance it would be over for ALLL YALLLLLL
  We are North easterns..we love to dance and sing ...we also love to see our region making 
hob or hobneelch- a Saturday night dance. (From the hobnailed boots that were popular in the valley.)
Wakeup  Shower  Eat Read Dance Sleep 
" You have been reposting shit from rightwingnut fake news medias, doesn't make a stable genus look "
World of dance
 City girls for year 7s now that I would've like to see. Lmao imagine the dance competitions  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Crazy by Seal on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Salome by Cheo Feliciano on  
"""Distinguishing good and evil subjective fact, the antithesis of the truth!""

Switch (Kazuyoshi Usui) - ""Sket Dance"""
 ALI DANCE WITH ME BB
tb to when seulgi made nct do the power up dance challenge i love sm family
  what about this we can dance to que calor
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby The Lift by Comatrixx on 
TurnItUp for ReOrder &amp; Darren Porter - The Void (Original Mix) Electro House Deep House Dubstep Minimal 
"""City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts"" by MICHAEL COOPER via NYT "
4/19/19 Check out the Daily Herald piece that columnist Jim O'Donnell wrote about Chet Coppock. It really was Coppo 
This was actually one of my favorite songs to dance to as a kid on Dance Dace Revo. 
 Im tryna sing and dance with you tf
"please make a cover of the yves  uhhhhhh, i don't think so. i can't actually dance, and ""the yves"" is just so maje "
I just watched  pop their ankle trying to fortnite dance
"No  delay could stop the dance partay for  and  

Pac12SB "
"It was jooheon, changkyun and shownu. Jooheon &amp; Changkyun rap style really amaze the shit out of me. They spit fire "
"WILL-O' 2018.9.17

1. Pinball
2. FLOWER DANCE
3. Voice
4. Last dance
5. Innovator
6. Roller Coaster



WILLO"
Square Dance 9   
rock pop dance classic hits now: Keeping Love Alive by George Duke on  
the chorus of bon bon chocolat isnt even that hard and that white girl just fucking ruined the dance wtf have some Respect
Soulja Boy just came on in my Lyft and suddenly Im 16 again and think that I can dance
"The snake which I am sitting on pulls the core out of me. Radhika, don't just think, don't sit. Pull him and do the "
 Can t wait for your Yellow boi drop the default dance
 I'm in VA to spend Easter w/ my adult daughter &amp; son. When did they grow up ? Seems like yesterday I w 
El Team Dance con Earned It + Goosebumps. Amo la parte de Seunghun 
Donna Summer I Feel Love [Extended Dance Edit]  via  FridayNightDanceParty
"Makes total sense, I understand completely. How about
Safety Dance - Men Without Hats (again pretty obscure but the "
"looking for a multitalented girl group who can sing, rap, dance and have an amazing stage presence? stan little mix! "
BRAND NEW DANCE VIDEO Adryiano - On My Side DANCE VIDEO 
 Turning myself about...my best dance move!
Lil Dickys 'Earth' is probably going to start this trend in popular trend of musicians incorporating this afrobeat 
      I didn't give a dime to tha 
Does anyone want to go to a toros game tomorrow and watch me dance 
"-watching Homecoming-
Me: and das them twins who is dance? What they name? 
Celeste: twindem 

LMAOOOOO"
I heard about KQ Fellaz but thought they were a dance group.  forced me to stan during their first week of 
" Sally: *teleports away*

Lyric: Your mean Circus ;-;

Music: She's not mean you just got to watch what you say

Dance: Yep"
One of the biggest and important points Beyonc made in her documentary is that in the dance world you have to be o 
TOKiMONSTA - Realla (feat. Anderson .Paak) [Official Video]  SongOfTheDay music dance feels
Best rock pop dance music Now Mama Don't Get Dressed Up For Nothing by Brooks &amp; Dunn on 
" It's a DANCE. I step forward, you step back. I step back, you step forward."
nowplaying NPbot PARANOiA KCETclean mix - 2MB - Dance Dance Revolution 3rd MIX Original Soundtrack [Disc 1] 
Milius signs with NWU dance team 
   LMFAOOOO I hate when they dance like this 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Mad Love
 - Sean Paul, David Guetta Ft. Becky G
 "
Not looking forward to the annual dance of Joels knee problem being more serious than stated and the Sixers bullshitting us about it.
This remix SLAP lol I cant dance to save my life 
Adryiano - On My Side DANCE VIDEO  via 
 Ooooh... I dunno. Does a /dance/ sound good enough for you?
 is such a great performer. She just makes you want to get up and dance in your living room. beyonce 
I started to feel kinda sad so I listened to three (3) different versions of I Wanna Dance with Somebody and jammed 
      These people who support Bria 
Sooooo we just gon ignore the fact that  gave us a WHOLE line dance. Why are we not killing this at Every c 
 Any age could dance to him. Ageless cool.
NowPlaying on Prysm Dance Revival GALA - Freed From Desire - App: 
 just so yall know DDR is an arcade game. Its dance dance revolution lol.
"Congrats to  on joining the  fam! Now playing one of their new songs, ""I Don't Dance"" on the "
" kai looks it's an easy pitsy dance, how to be you?"
" 
My Best Dance Classes 
Plz Like share and Subscribe"
 Finished all my classes for this dance program retested my hair in time for 4/20 it was a good day!
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
 no. lead dance lol
"somethin about listenin to M2U while i'm drawing makes everything feel magical and dance-like, its wonderful~"
"Cleaning and listening to An EDM Shuffle Dance Mix.
RockOn
ShuffleOn"
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
Ole girl couldnt dance 
Let our hearts dance through the night
"I dance because I love dancing ..
sapnachoudhary dance events haryana jaat chetak aakhiyakayokajal "
"If they have the option for us to sing Ashlee Simpson tomorrow night for 90s karaoke, I'm gonna do it then pretend "
" i mean at the end of the day, we should be hyping each other of up..not sitting here going back &amp; fourt "
whats the meaning behind the different locations in yves new mv... the bright white dance studio is quite the con 
 ze queen herselfff 
the power of dance line 
"      ""Patriots know how to use a "
Possession / TAG underground / Dance Dance Revolution X2
"Food. Beauty. Insipiration. Dance Tutorial. Vlogs

"
Bts boy with luv dance or will probably drop the dance practice this Sunday because from the previous come backs th 
Gavin Turek (Prod By TOKiMONSTA) - Never Alone  SongOfTheDay music dance feels
"Like the leaves, we never learn to fly, although the last fall seems like an easy dance for those who die, perceivi "
 The best way to make em dance is hard fast and deep
"Devil's day arrived
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 The end of all things"
"As someone who loves to dance tarian tradisioanl (walaupun tak pro) , I really want to do this on my wedding day "
i imagine a less coordinated ipod-dance 
Josh Milan - Thinking About Your Body (Louie Vega Dance Ritual Mix)  via 
i cant dance for shit 
You should join me at  tonight for Fantastic Friday! I'll be mixing music videos on all of their TVs! Th 
Let's go baby and dance now Papa Loves Mambo by Dj Maxim on  
senses fails artist also did art for dance gavin dance awwwwww
"I mean,,, Donghyuk's voice OHF I stan a Dance and Vocal King "
Bird PhotographyThe Peacock  
great Spy Experiment  The Dance With Me  nowplaying
Thank you to the kind stranger next to me at the Dance Gavin Dance show that said my singing is really fucking good. That meant a lot
anya petropavl teaching 2 students hip hop dance. 
"British Doctors May Soon Prescribe Art, Music, Dance, Singing Lessons "
Lemme give you a lap dance fool
        
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Out Of Touch by Hall &amp; Oates on 
" Like Lady Gaga said, Just Dance"
"u got a good boy attitude and yeah i kinda like it *dance like a pokpok*
 HAHAHAHAHAHAHA"
22) Im usually very social (which Im not when Im sober because severe social anxiety is a bitch) and will talk t 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Keeping Love Alive by George Duke on  
Gavin Turek (Prod By TOKiMONSTA) - Grace  SongOfTheDay music dance feels
Damn I gotta start practicing dance on my knees. Cause these bitches are WEAK.
Whoa. I wanna find out more about the character who majored in modern dance. 
Join us tomorrow for a wonderful day in the neighborhood including a dance performance on Diversity Plaza at 11AM! 
"the proof that in2it trains a lot is more visible when you look at hyunuk, im NOT being biased, actually he danced "
 Ive now decided that Im starting a dance team and we will practicing these moves. You in?
BMovieManiacs Music sounded like my dance quintet. You know my cycle? 
"me: imagine gerard dancing to this (reggae)
 : he can barely dance to his own music"
Let's Dance 2019: Oliver Pocher begeistert als Britney Spears beim Boys-vs-Girls-Battle - RTL Online 
Let's Dance 2019: Oliver Pocher begeistert als Britney Spears beim Boys-vs-Girls-Battle - RTL Online 
"Tomm We Brunch Then We Dance bsocialsupperclub  will be live, the food is on point, the vibes are a "
 I love taking my daughter to dance class for the same reason. It is nice to be forced to slow down and 
"ADiscoveryOfWitches - S01E04  - A war may come, but first we will ride and dance  TVReviews CurrentTV "
" time to throw some Shaed   this Band! Haunting Video here, digging it "
Json is out of town to see Dance Gavin Dance play in Ohio tomorrow and Im home in bed because I got work in the morning 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Naima by John Coltrane on  
Best rock pop dance music Now Don't You Worry 'Bout A Thing by Incognito on  
Halloween Michael Jackson Skeleton Men T-shirt Funny Humour shirt Moonwa  
So awesome!!!! It was a total dance battle 
 love u happy dance chiaki 
I find it funny how I love his expression when he dance predebut but not really now.. He didn't really do much of the smirk back then
Now Playing: LCD - Zorba's Dance
 RICKEY DIDN'T DANCE TO IT I JUST EDITED ONE AND ONLY OVER IT AND IT FITS PERFECTLY DJNDNDND
2Seok in THAT part of dionysus dance
bri drank all of my wine .. her punishment is playing drunk just dance for an hour. I love having a roommate
You have probably never met a girl like me. I dont like fancy food chicken nuggets and pizza for me but i dance whi 
When high hope by panic! at the disco comes on in the club you bet your ass Im spilling my heart out on the dance floor
"it will be a lot of sexy dancer, sexy model, sexy dance moves on the coming soon Winner's comeback."
" I said before in another tweet, when MJ dances it is not just about dance, he creates a genuine master pie "
"Muthamil Sangam event on Saturday, April 27 at Freemans Bay, Venkat Raman Auckland, April 20, 2019 Music and dance "
I hope you sick fuck out there is enjoyed watching me dance like a jester
Just Dance no Leo is new War na casa da Lara
Let's go baby and dance now Euphoria by Loreen on  
So this guy asked if we could dance and i told him no so he went like leh 3am tetkabare 3layna hssjisus what is wrong with men eye-
  cat&lt;333 dance 2 shakria w me &lt;333
NP : Alesana - All Night Dance Parties In The Underground Palace
"Woodbridge dance teacher facing sexual abuse, child pornography charges "
" Sally: Ok how many and who's the mom?

Lyric: I want to cry in a corner now

Music: *laughs*

Dance: *starts laughing*"
"I'm listening to Evolution, All Things Dance   "
Just Dance n' chill
 thats a fortnite dance
I made up this random dance move lol 
"NewYork Weekend 
Art &gt;&gt; Leonard Cohen: A Crack In Everything (The Jewish Museum) | Music &gt;&gt; Christopher Mcbrite "
Kida the Great | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19  via 
Do dogs feel the music? Check out the video compilation of our pooches who dance to the tunes so perfectly. 
"*pointing to dough*
I doNT DANCE NOW I MAKE MONEY MOVES "
"Billie Eilish ""bad guy"" (Dance Practice by SAEBOM)  via "
 Best thing that ever happened to Don McGahn. Theyre all doing the happy dance at Jones Day.
"GUNHYPE TVBLAZE IT UP vol.2 Sep.16"" DANCE LECTURE"" "
" ~ freedom.

Her eyes were closed, focused on the fantastical vision in her mind that she was trying t "
"It doesn't matter what others are doing. Yes it matters what You are doing...
sapnachoudhary dance events "
Ive watched Lisa dance to Swalla more times than Ive seen my own momma in my whole lifetime
" To quote  impeach the mother fucker! Dont dance around, hold hearings, beat around ideas "
  This place served had barbecue and potato salad after the Church service. And a dance. If I did 
 hmm 29 would probably be diamond sky for sure. and 33 is kibums imagine or juliette hehe just because i love that dance a lot
 Its more a sigh of relief for the Sox. Not a breakout dance party lol.
I feel like my dads sign to let me know hes still with me and listening to me when I need him is by playing Luther 
  Ryan? May I have this first dance? Since youre busy.....
"La mejor rola de Human Drama, ciento por ciento
The silent dance of the ghosts we left
Will forever end in each oth "
TONIGHT! MORRISSEY + THE SMITHS Night {Underground} DTLA 2 Floor Blowout CALL/TEXT YOUR FRIENDS &amp; GO UNDERGROUND! 
 im saying!!! and people said I dont have energy like I dance better than that cmon now
 u know when animal crossing characters get happy and do the dance? looks like chiaki is doing the happy animal crossing dance
I was gonna praise dance but I think Ill just fall to the floor and convulse. JESUS! She said IT. 
"Complete the tie-in missions to get an alternate version of Ivory Sword Dance, featuring Pecorine from Princess Con "
Today's Dance YouTube Video David Guetta's Titanium (feat. Sia) 
"OnTheDecks with Me TONIGHT 4 WDP362dance radio



 "
Light by San Holo from Light - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Walking on Fire (feat. Thomas Daniel) by Arcando from Walking on Fire (feat. Thomas Daniel) [Daniel Garrick Edit] - 
Spaceship (feat. Uffie) [MOTi Remix] by Galantis from Spaceship (feat. Uffie) [Remixes] - EP  on Late Night Dance M 
Feel Free by RL Grime from NOVA  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Check This Out by Marshmello from Joytime II  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Diamond Heart (feat. Sophia Somajo) by Alan Walker from Diamond Heart (feat. Sophia Somajo) - Single  on Late Night 
On My Own by Slushii from On My Own - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Superhuman (Culture Code Remix) [feat. Kelly Sweet] by Juventa from Superhuman (Remixes) [feat. Kelly Sweet] - EP 
Back &amp; Forth (ft. Jonas Blue &amp; Becky Hill) by MK from Back &amp; Forth (ft. Jonas Blue &amp; Becky Hill) - Single  on Late 
Just Don't Know It Yet (feat. BullySongs) by Moti from Just Don't Know It Yet (feat. BullySongs) - Single  on Late 
Forever Free (feat. Duskus) by San Holo from Album1  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Be Somebody (feat. Kiiara) by Steve Aoki from Be Somebody (feat. Kiiara) - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on 
Live at Night (feat. Sophie Simmons) by Different Heaven from Live at Night (feat. Sophie Simmons) - Single  on Lat 
Perfect Strangers by Arty from Perfect Strangers - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on  
Ice Cold by Netsky &amp; David Guetta from Ice Cold - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
Happier by Marshmello &amp; Bastille from Happier - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
" 

- that tweet hehehe
- your dance at sophies debut
- those random sawi talks"
"We made an angsty playlist just for Olicity! So sing, dance, and cry with us all in the name of this epic love sto "
I want slow dance with you):
We need to have a throwback school dance where they don't play anything after the year 2010
Rewatching Beyoncs Homecoming with Adrian and Im practicing the dance moves *because I think I know some of them 
dance in the dark!!!!!!
 Looks like the moves of a poorly conceived dance.
I dont dance in the slightest. Not over anything. I used to fuckin tap dance my way down the grocery store isles w 
"See, the trick to making risotto is to make it while youre drunk so you get to dance around the kitchen in a panic"
"Only bangers!!!! This next EP will make everyone dance, trap out, cry, feel empowered!!!! All the emotions we go through everyday!!!"
"As soon as Lupe turns 21, catch us out on the dance floor  "
hollywood !!! All set for the redcarpet and sold out premiere of hisfathersvoice at the  at 730 
 Ask me what you need. I'll wait.
  ugh this is only for the influencers that go to festivals not real people that dance and get down and dirty lol
 I have Just Dance 2019 on the PS4 and use the camera. I personally love it and with JD'19 you can pay 
Loser - Dance On My Grave (Official Music Video)  via 
I dont dance but I like to get jiggy
"      I'm a retired LEO, after wi "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Mean Mistreatin' Mama by Elmore James on  
"full dance: 
"
   lmao Im weak! I swear this is the dance all black aunts do at the cookout/wedding/ot 
What do you and your roommate do when your next door neighbors blast EDM so loud you can hear everything through th 
Tonight we bring you not one but two new shows! The Fab Ruby Fury has a new dance and Trance show at 8pm  followed 
Happy to see The 1BEST President In American History Next To John F Kennedy Can dance  
 working hard on me and this money baby. REAL KING DEVASTATOR x legendary kennethterry smile 
Hello world! 
 UM WOW HAVE FUN  DANCE TO  FOR ME 
The Superhero Mother/Son Dance was a Blast this past Wednesday! Thank you to all that participated :)
      -for you. Now people of zinnia wi 
 The mayor of Tallahassee is the best you can get. Having a hard time filling your dance card ?
"Have a nice day.!
Dance  "
"dance , dont hold the wall ( v )"
"Britt Schmiedt/Taylor and Ben Beacom, Cousins challenging their cousins to do the triangle dance!!!  Momma Beacs "
Dance Dabke Revolution. You heard it here first.
when I die play the default dance at my funeral
" Choi Yena  (this is gonna be long)

Yena made me stan her and iz*one period 
I remember getting E "
Def a dance break and a wardrobe change at the least 
And ALSO in my 21st year I want to learn how to not give a fuck about dancing. I never dance. I always always say t 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : U Got 2 Know
 - Ralvero
 "
"Check out the comic CHAMPS :: Round 4: Dance, Page 2   via "
"Kill this love dance cover by AC Bonifacio 
"
this is the just dance version im not kidding 
If someone made a business out of how to be sexy like how to sexy dance in a nightclub or pose all sexy for a pic t 
      Clearly u do  - here a few 
 IM NOT ALLOWED TO DANCE?!?!
"   You need to google things. They do not have to go to a port of entry.

You guy "
Shut up and DANCE WITH MEEEE
 yo cutie I bought the new skin and new dance the second it came out  low eyes high vibes and I was us 
"Considers dance her favorite sport.
Leader of Driving Club
After a scandal, she was demoted to Kenkyuusei from 1st February, 2013
Miichan"
Best rock pop dance music Now Samba De Verao by Caetano Veloso on  
The Way I Are (Dance With Somebody) feat. Lil Wayne (Offici...  via   different but give it a try
I rated  at House of Blues Chicago  via Bandsintown 
 I'll dance in the streets when that day gets here!
Leonard Cohen.. dance me to the end my love.. 
today was my first day off of dance in 2 and a half months and I really didn't know what to do with myself...
Zumba Dance - Lose Belly Fat Fast - Best Exercises For Losing Weight..For more info visit... 
At my daughters dance recital and there was a group wearing Mitchell jerseys. My son happened to wear the same one. 
When u hit it from the back you gotta dance in the pussy 
"Im in the mood to go out, drink until I kill my liver and dance my butt off but at the same time I feel like weari "
 Sis we all need to go clubbing together one of these days  Afiqah and the gays on the dance floor can u imagine
Let's party dance dance dance Let's take our hands to hands to hands Shut up and smile so you can see how beautiful 
"I just performed a glorious dance to it TWICE for Zack, once with the cat, and was met with steely indifference"
"latepost what an incredible show we had the other night! So thankful to be a part of this tribute to Aretha again, "
Andy even had to have a laugh at that Franmil/Tatis dance
Cannot wait to dance my wee heart oot at terminal v with my bitches toMOZ  send it
Woohoo! These ghost hunters banished the ghost and saved the Winter dance! 
First City Dance opens competitive season  
What is the charlie brown dance sos
I Just Liked This Video On Youtube! FORTNITE DEFAULT DANCE - BASS BOOSTED  -Sent Via IFTTT
But my bf doesnt know how to dance and doesnt like going to the club when there is no group
 not going to your dance class 
"GUYS my dance team is performing a new routine at a halftime show tomorrow pls wish us luck 
maybe ill post a video of it who knowS"
"*wants to join cover contest for 1the9*
*watches dance practice *
no"
Why can't Luigi dance with Hitler ?
 Um... there already is a Sorority Babes 2... it was Sorority Babes in the Dance-a-Thon of Death and 
"""White ppl can't dance"" "
was no one gonna tell me toddlers and tiaras became like dance moms with rival coaching teams or was I just suppose 
he does his fair share of beating outside of dance battles too 
ISO a friend to go dance with.
Fire Dance | Last Night Party  | Travel Vlog  | Vlogging | New Status  via 
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  NOTD &amp; FELIX JAEHN &amp; CAPTAIN CUTS -  So Close (Feat GEORGIA KU) 
Ecoutez nous su "
Going to a school dance lets get it 
" I'm on data so can't watch these rn but god damnittttttt looool

well listen u got this anyway just dance on em"
  I was intrigued by  once I saw them dance in that parking garage but S 
Honestly just trying to have a squad to bust out dance numbers in the club like White Chicks
why cant i fortnite dance in minecraft
 Celebrate.  Celebrate.  Dance to the music.
   Learn to dance the Carolina Shag. 
WAIT I JUST FOUND OUT SHES PART OF THE LAB??????? WHAT THEFUFKFJF I LOVE THAT GROUP THEYVE BEEN IN WORLD OF DANCE T 
"Dean- half moon
Team dance- earned it+goosebumps
Rap battle hyunsuk vs junhyuk "
      I'm conservative on every iss 
 Dont you have some children to take care of? No on really cares what you have to say. Your just a li 
 how bout we dANCe instead ;))
im basically tryana focus on me ..dance and school
Idc what anyone says but a dance record is a cheat code for a hit
 do you shoot anymore or only feature dance all over the country?
 You can teach someone to dance you cant teach someone to respect you
81.) I love to sing and dance but sadly I am not good at it 
I wanna go out to dance 
"Went into the practice room, Id just play the music
and dance. When Im dancing, I dont even notice how
Im doing it."
"Biblical Jones - Holy Dance Remix (Main Remix)
 "
"   this is what I was talking about, the black auntie dance. But doing this while also doin "
 lmfaoo i have them but it doesnt help people always textin me like great dance moves
 Thats its mating dance you fool!
Irlanda  doble stout 
"And when Jimin realises Hobi isn't there to play with him as often as he used to be, his face is forever fixed in a "
"NEW NIGHT
Join TheHookahGuyz tonight  for the  greatest allgirls party inside murano_laBring out your "
this how i look when i dance  
"NOW, in the mix with DJ Renay on AMYS FM - 

Biblical Jones - Holy Dance Remix (Main Remix) "
"Slightly drunk and reciting the lyrics to ""Let's Dance"" out of order to "
 pubby dance...
" As class began, Jo was distracted by thoughts of Ali. Her heart skipped at the thought of her. She "
Lesbian dance studies...missed that one. 
I'm nominating this one as STAYs' official dance 
 i still am awkward for concerts lmao if theres some bangers ill dance but idk what to do for hozier 
 Just finished watching it and I want more. I feel like Just Dance needs to get their funds together and g 
Mann I want to dance so bad
Chileeee Beyonce Got Me Ready To Go Out Here &amp; Do It For Lil Saint Bitch  I Can Dance Too B
If we don't get a Dionysus dance pratice so what's the point?
 and i dont even have a possible guy to dance with lets be sad together
"If its one thing I learned from Greys Anatomy, its to dance when youre sad. HAVE YALL DONE IT?!? It really does relieve man."
"LOVE SHOT LOVE SHOT CUS EVERYONE ANCESTORS DANCE TO THIS

uwu  "
"Tishy can dance like this what 
Tishy can dance like that how"
" Sally: Oh hey guys

Lyric: I hate myself ;-;

Music: *starts laughing*

Dance: Poor Lyric lol"
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Straight To The Bank by Bill Summers on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Express Yourself by Madonna on  
"I recommend the music. I saw many music performers that werent mainstream but bands I followed. As well, the dance "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : No Sleep
 - Martin Garrix Ft. Bonn
 "
Energy you sense is a dance beyond the obvious into the realm of imagining.  Everything you can imagine is real. 
Tonight i dance my last dance
"Easter Monday dance party! 
Dance friends, if you're missing your dance fix this long weekend, get your bunny booti "
i never thought id see the day where jack avery was the best at hitting a dance move in why dont we but the woah h 
Adele should sample the dance mix of the Mortal Kombat theme
 Omg the ending credits dance are the the best. The funniest ones I saw was definitely from Working!! 
BLACKPINK - 'Don't Know What To Do' DANCE PRACTICE VIDEO (MOVING VER.)   
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Child by Mark Owen on  
Is there a yoga class in nyc that plays pop/hip hop/dance music that isnt hot yoga?  used to have one. I kn 
"

GOT7 Dance Practice

Girls Girls Girls 2



:"
 california cruisin or one dance remix
saturbaescranton late night dance party! This is gonna be biblical! peculiarslurp scranton dance danceparty 
i miss dance SO MUCH 
the Taking Miss Dance Rabbits
"We had so much fun at the IRC Literacy garden today planting basil seeds with kids, talking to families about our p "
HOW TO: Dance at prom...ft.  
It fryday Get of the couch and go dancing people start up the night with this   free mix dan 
i got A lap dance????????
Dance rehearsal at 8 am! Practice for Easter Sunday is in affect
I just want someone to dance with
I took photographs of a dancer today and.....Im in fucking love with the photographs  I want to do more dance photoshoots!!!
Weird thing is though I cant dance worth shit
"I have talents and hustles, like ClawMeCrazyy Nails &amp; Black Illusion Dance Company.. and I plan on gaining more and learning more trades."
let me see you break dance. 
 She kissed back. Her heart skipped a beat when they kissed. She couldnt wait for class to be over e 
"Middle school? Yeah i just wanted to be a lil boy all my life &amp; fight, dance &amp; play sports .. i hated boys. Till hi "
I love you mucho my Prince Dance you my super hero my life you my baby you my heart you my king you my hope my dope 
"""DOLLAR MENU"" by  
(feat. 

electronic pop dance newmusicfriday
"
 You cant dance neither lol
I just want to wake up and create. Act. Sing. Dance. All of that.
Freedom Hymn comes on. I give Timmy a weird look cuz hes doing weird dance moves and he looks at me and says this is my freedom hand!
Less than 1 day left!! If you havent gotten a ticket yet you can buy one the day of the event as well! No excuses! 
How can Beyonce breathe and dance so controlled 
YOU MAKE ME DANCE BRING ME UP BRING ME DOWN PLAY IT SWEET MAKE ME MOVE LIKE A FREAK
"  I took the scenic route once and found this. Later, I made a point of taking my wife to a servi "
:tgif Get of the couch and go dancing people start up the night with this   free mix dance h 
 I went to a daiso in the countryside of japan yesterday and they played accha accha so I had to do the 
"Beyonc is the female version of mc hammer,  she can dance good with no talent, lets argue"
 are u in highschool if so u could ask her to a dance or something sometime..  if u guys have prom that 
OOOH I WANNA DANCE WITH SOMEBODY
Honestly west dance team fuckin sucked
dionysus dance practice but make it.... halloween ver
Wanna put on some heels n get sexy n dance for my man but too bad he dont deserve it 
"Its the opening scene of a drama .... the school's golden boy, captain of the football team, genius in all of his s "
dance dance - day6 
"     From the outrageous over-the-top dance moves, to "
 Wait is this a dance off?   If so Im so gonna get in.  Ive got a nasty foxtrot.
I want to have a dance party 
"Were filling your dance floor! Send us a message for booking inquiries. @ Ottawa, Ontario "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby I'm In Control by AlunaGeorge Feat. Popcaan on  
 He made this dance and  song his bxtch
self care is rewatching majima sing 24 hour cinderella AND watching both kiryu and majima dance to friday night right after 
Dance For You- Beyonc 
"Yall, they done caught a stripper ghost giving a dance on camera. No lie. "
i need friends who know how to dance so they can actually dance w/me  
i NEED. the boy with luv dance practice. ive been WAITING.
GIRLS GENERATION LETS DANCE HIT THE BEAT AND TAKE ITTO TJE FAST LANE
  bro I'm a default dance
On this day 33 years ago Kiss by Prince went 1 (and gave us the most iconic short dance in history)  
The Royal Family dancing to Chun-Li by  1st place champs  2019 HipHop International NewZealand 
Me and Niah aint have no dance battle in so long
 let dance to that 
"Meet  from his teenage days! 

.
.
.
.

All credit to the photographer/owner
 
 teenage varundhawan "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np This D.J. by Warren G on  
"can't believe I used to dance while gettin ready to go out when I was younger.

I think I might need to ice my knees "
Ive never been in a dance battle before I wouldnt even know where to begin
 Didnt you go to a dance one time
" Hope this song will make you dance for your birthday
"
All the points = Dance Party Friday TFCLive 
The best thing about living in a house with a 4yo is that every hour is play time. The little lovebug informs me th 
" Dance: Actually Sin does have two kids

Lyric: Wait for real

Dance: Yeah but you don't see them around a "
" ""I think I wanna dance.."" It's the friggin weekend. paisleypark prince kiss weekend "
LoveCNBLUE/SUPER JUNIOR/SISTAR/K-POP/Dance/fashion I want to be ulzzang
Watching homecoming with my sis in law &amp; were both like damn I wish I could dance. Would be busting out so dance b 
don't wanna dance alone. that's it. that's the tweet.
"Lol the NYTs modern dance coverage made the new season of Veep (ep. 3), weve arrived "
" Just catching up on your fusion dance from Monday! Fantastic! Ive voted for you every week, I gave ev "
" Today's  supporters, with their degrees in Gender Studies and Lesbian Dance can't see th "
"Is she not more than the curve of her hips?
Is she not more than the shine on her lips?
Does she not dream to sing "
Me: You know what I realized about Bring It On? It was ahead of its time. It shed light in cultural appropriation a 
me while trying to dance to miroh 
   Face of dignity? She stood there spiteful &amp; envious during epic LSFYL 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Calavera
 - Hardwell &amp; KURA
 "
At Catasauquas Gas House Dance Hall  alt-country rocks  burn it up on the song Wake You 
Have a dance 
boy with luv dance practice 
 Me too! Its been so bad but Ive been feeling better lately by listening to music that makes you w 
I just want to have a dance off with 
Julianne Hough Leaving a Dance Studio in Los Angeles  juliannehough dancestudio losangeles
KSLSLSJKDKDK EYE ONE OF MY DANCE GROUP MEMBERS COVERED KILL THIS LOVE IN THIS SUIT 
        
how to dance: don't
and it's hard to dance with a devil on your back
Aint nothing more attractive than someone who can dance 
"I just used flavor flav in a normal conversation with no joking. 
If I wasnt my mothers child before I sure am now!!"
Last week for $20 tix!! Fresno Rave Dance music EDM Raver california electronic Trance Housemusic 
"For my girlfriends yang nak jadi bridesmaid i, you girls better do this traditional dance on my wedding day !!! "
I cant get over this dance cover of HOME   
Shop  for active &amp; athleisure wear for women! High quality. Affordable prices. 
  It's going to be a very gay dance sequence
" Head tilts as I do a little half twirl before I shrug again, ""Don't have anyone that's interested. "
      My pleasure. Another Patri 
" Que BOOM!!! Patrangers: ""By the order of the Global Police, we'll take this dance by force"". Lupinra "
Show me what you Got Lil Mama!!!! Show me what you got Pretty Lady!!!! Miami LadiesNight TideUp305 Dance 
some of you dont know about this legendary Ateez dance practice where theyre dressed in all white performing pir 
  I can't dance without alcohol 
  Wish I could see that! I love that song/ dance number
  AND Mothers Day! We get to party extra!  I hope you get to dance your heart out at the co 
Houston tomorrow night! My friends opened their new club BAUHAUS  come out and dance wifffff me and my friends  
Dance-a-thon to rebuild the Notre Dame!!
"Yes!!!  British doctors may soon prescribe art, music, dance, singing lessons  via "
Friday Nights with  from  /  in the Building!!  Has $2 U-CALL-ITS 
      There's proof Brian ran gofu 
"Waltz. Sigrid and Murat in Stuttgart, 2017 - YouTube tango dance "
i hate this dance but ateez bodies it every single time 
 Savior at his first 8th grade dance with mommy 
Lost Files my cousins always pump me up cause I dance like a white girl    
When your son does the Fortnite dance at a wedding BucJr 
Going Bad - Meek Mill feat. Drake | Chapkis Dance | WilldaBeast Adams ch...  va 
"Babe when you see this, come out the bathroom and dance with me! "
is there a song that u think vibes with Tap Dance by Octave Minds (ft. Chance the Rapper) or shares lyrics or a m 
"NowPlaying Madben - Grief, dance to death feat. Rebeka Warrior &amp; Manu Le Malin "
The conditions weren't ideal for Madison to do this handcuff dance. dateline
i wanna- just dance but he took me home instead oh oh there was a MONSTER in my bed 
oh minghao incorporated his move from don't wanna cry into the dance break 
I'm going for a Kpop dance class today to learn Boy With Luv! 
"Jon just did the cyber goths under the bridge dance to Teenage Dream, and I knew I made the right choice to marry him"
" lmao I do walk I just wanna dance for fun , fine I'll do with without u"
 Just kinda dance it helps me
" Huey Lewis &amp; The News......dance, party, reminisce."
"Now Playing: E. J. Strickland - A Dance For Mojo's Return off of the album """" on "
"People always talk about ""Magic Dance"" when discussing Labyrinth, but ""Underground"" is the real bop, y'all"
Sneak Peak of  working hard for The Summit! This new dance is  
" Thrilled we got to dance with you, Lyssa! ThePromMusical"
" Definitely Howard University where she would be in Afro Blue, Concert Choir, Gospel Ensemble and be a "
last mcd dance a success 
 Dont dance brother  this shouldve been the ladybug lol
"And next week on LivePD
The diaper dance off "
 2016 herriman high was the best school for sports state champs in football rugby hockey cheer. I think da 
Jill from dance moms inviting herself to holly and Abbys shopping trip so she can ask if Kendall can play Rosa Parks in the group dance 
  hi Beth? is there any pinguin who can sing and dance like happyfeet?
Fortnite has taken over the world LAGalaxy dance cam lol
My darling
"back to teaching elementary schoolers dance next week
which means mixing a new track and choreographing another thing"
Let's go baby and dance now Rage The Night Away by Steve Aoki Feat. Waka Flocka Flame on  
WHY IS THERE AN ARMY THEMED TERP DANCE wtf yall
 is such a great performer. She just makes you want to get up and dance in your living room. homecomingbeyonce
This is how I dance to this song in real life so this is real life mood 
lrt is angel the other night playing the high school musical dance game he found at goodwill
im having a zayn dance party alone in my bed in the dark its super fun
 Okay everyone it's time to do the Mueller time dance 
"MJ Tribute dance video by Iqbal Singh 

 "
 cant wait for the return of our synchronized dance swims
Now playing Got To Give It Up (Part 1) by Marvin Gaye music best hits rock pop dance on  
"  Ahhh! What happened to the era of the extended dance mix?  When I used to spin, my fav was "
"As I dance through these unchanging days
I began to think that they are a gift given to us"
" 2009 - 10 year reunion is coming up, and I have a feeling the past 10 'adult' years won't matter b "
"  | Yoonkook Au

The most beautiful she trailed off, letting the words dance into the air around t "
Chase wont dance with me 
Jung Ilhoons cute habit when he did some mistakes like messed up the lyrics or forgetting the dance steps. Hahahah 
Yo I wanna dance some cumbia :/
"         Did you know she can dance, too?"
 If yall get Zion maybe LaVine can finally get to the dance.
ok but what if they give dionysus a dance break
 one dance remix or hit the ground
    I was confused until I realized they are trying to play pony in the dance off...
 Every body dance now
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Slow Down
 - Normani Ft. Calvin Harris
 "
us when we get the dance troupe shirts  
 VERY happy pup dance  there Truman! Happy Gotcha Day!!!
"My dad just said ""everyone know a Czechoslovakian chickens don't dance! Only Bulgarian ones do"" and I'm just,,,, so confused"
Dance out of work and into Cedar Room cause it's time for the weekend!  @ Cedar Room 
i learned a tik tok dance
Im glad that I paired up with him in this drama because I could learn some dance moves from him.  Yeeuni says thank you Jinyoung oppa.
 Its so cute because he is doing the just dance version.
Waahh this guyy is soo amaziingg lalo na yun funny personality nya  Future president I know na you'll do well kasi 
 KangDaniel is very good at dancing and his dance line is superb! here's a glimpse y'all  
 Savior at the middle school dance when the chaperone asks him to dance so hes not left out 
  omg it looks like the Squirrels in My Pants dance from Phineas and Ferb HAHAHAHA
"I newly learned Im in love with Billie love performances bc she dances to feel it not to just simply perform. 
Bc "
Ain't no party like a first daughter party! Ivanka Trump let loose on Wednesday when she joined in ...  via 
 What song is your favorite to sing along and dance to?
  Still she can't dance
It blows my mind that Jojo Siwa is the biggest Dance Mom girl instead of Maddie.
  It's no contest. Episode 1 contains no song and dance numbers.
Super proud to be at Dance Masters of PA  dottymcgilldance with  as she and her family advocate for 
"That I could go through this physically grinding week, be up since 5:30, on 4 hours sleep, &amp; still dance my fuxking "
He ushered the boys to the dance room to start warming up while Hoseok was on his way. Jeongguk laughed as they beg 
Im ushering in this powerful full moon by going to watch Flyaway Productions - an all-woman apparatus-based dance 
Join Rhythmix instructor Lynda Gutierrez in a free salsa-inspired dance class next Saturday at Sounds of Cuba with 
308 profile visits on my dance account???? Omgggg my got more attention after I posted me bwl cover 
NowPlaying Erron Wellington - Legacy on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
 Thank you CC! Im proud of you too! Btw Im so sorry I couldnt make it to your dance. Im sure you did 
"  Hey Boseley, I am a Trump supporter, thereby your opinion about Trump must mean I am the "
"Maybe we were made to
Dance around each other, babe
I don't know, I don't care
I'm just scared"
 we can dance bit
"I hate that my friends never wanna go dance, like I get tired of seeing the same people at the same bars, i like to dance"
"Pancreatic cancer took her father and brother, now Heidi is also fighting for her life "
"For everyone who is asking, yes, Saturday night is a dance night! "
"my mom said that she and my dad only played country music at their wedding reception and she said nobody danced
and "
 They really just need to clear the dance floor for us next time they play it. Like we really stole the show last night tbh
My neciey Pooh gone say tee tee I put yo dance video on my Snapchat 
i wish i could still dance
Glass Pieces by Jerome Robbins. Philip Glass dance 
 i wannaaaa just dance but he took me home instead oo ;/
IM STANNING JAEYOON THE DANCE MACHINE
ok whats up with locals and thinking  that if they listen to 2 secs of bts talking ill freak out and obsess over 
OMG just watched luhenyang dance video theyre so cute
Friday Night  TheVirgil | Dancing with  + Def Sound's Dance Therapy  
We dance like marionettes swaying to the symphony of destruction
Does anyone know of a taekook au where bts were at school doing a dance performance and jungkook had to lift up his 
 The ass dance is the best! 
"[ENG SUB] 190405 BlackACE Vlog 1: Naicha's Dance Time



BlackACE ACE  Naicha"
Gunna get shxt for not going to dance class tn
Just a one last dance.
 OMGGG THATS THE GIRL FROM THAT GROUP I ALWAYS WATCH AND SHES FROM THAT VIRAL DANCE VIDEO
"I don't often reminisce about high school, but I hope all of you from Edwardsburg High School tell your kids about "
 Maybe?(clint shrugged as he looked over at her.) would you want to elope? I think Id rather have 
 Ferrets can dance! 
" This video for lisa dance is the best , you are so lucky "
She dont dance but she dance for me..
Hula Is More Than a DanceIt's the 'Heartbeat' of the Hawaiian People  via 
" Come on. Don't be miserable.
Go drive or walk or cook or dance "
Our dance classes participated in University of Georgias Dance Day in Athens! TornadoNation 
"Hey Boseley, I am a Trump supporter, thereby your opinion about Trump must mean I am the same as Trump. Care to com "
I know were going to get a boy with luv dance practice but the question is will we get a dionysus one
Fern. Official is a 17-year old uprising artist who grabbed the no. 1 spot on Spotify from local to international d 
My favorite part is the happy dance he does while reading my name and no I'm not replaying it over and over and ove 
"I know you tryna leave but excuse me miss , I saved the last dance for you"
 Now Playing Dance (Louie Info Fun by 3 Winans Brothers Feat. The Clark Sisters 
 Ive deadass sprained my neck muscles cuz of the dance and havent recovered for days I dont have any r 
"can someone help me come up with a title for a ""god"" who can be sunshine, rap, sing and dance at the same time ?  "
" Hahahah sm family?
Gotta ease her into the idea, has RV ever covered HOT songs? Maybe could persuade "
on the other hand i just got off stage from my dance show so thats fun
IS IT TRUE??? DID YOUNGBIN REALLY DANCE TO HOBIS BASELINE SONG??? PLS I NEED TO KNOW
"I really appreciate music. 

Sometimes its lyrics. Sometimes its the beat behind the lyrics that just makes my soul dance."
this is why Im a big fan of impromptu dance parties in 602 
That dugout dance you do when you score 18 runs in one inning!!!! 
" Sean, keep up the great work you're doing sir. I'll dance the day Hillary is sent to prison ..."
"i said dance, not grind you oldie  "
"I cant exactly explain how a kinglet mating dance broke out in the kitchen during bedtime snack, but I can tell yo "
  I feel good!!!  Let's dance next time ~!
 Nah. Disagree. Its still nice to make the dance
  YES YES AND SHE IS FROM THE LAB!! THE DANCE CREW THAT WON WDC LAST YEAR!!!
I can't stop smiling sksksksks tag yourselves I'm namjoon's dance moves  
Can I have this dance 
Lmfao tell me why the guys are at my house practicing a whole dance routine for FOF tomorrow
    I think Kristi and I are in a dance off and I got some shake back there! 
"    Here is my dance 
TastyTreat RapChakMoves TastyTreatArmy "
"Just the finished the very good Season 4, GameOfThrones Episode 9' s Castle Black siege was awesome. Great trackin "
WAIT   REALLY CHOREOGRAPHED DIONYSUS' DANCE I DJSNDJSNKXNSKXNDJ MY FAV DANCE GROUPNDJSNDIS 
Clearly he finna cut up the dance flo
"      ViswasamGlorious100Days 
Thu "
Old Town Road Line Dance...phresh for ya Friday night. 
Me and my future wife will go to Barcelona and dance in the streets.
I love watching Black boys dance. They look so free and unhinged from the cares of the world.
"Strange and ancient gods dance and stir and erode the sepulchers whose walls harbor all oblivion, even greater so t "
actually that emote is called dance moves. its a common mistake as it is very close to that one. 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB You See The Trouble With Me (Lissat &amp; Voltaxx Radio Edit) by Black Legend on 
I'm sorry but DSTM defined dance music from 2007 and onwards.. I'm just saying  
"      Yeah, its a joke. Patriots "
 I'm really hoping that since it was in the teaser they will finally perform it again AND do the dance!
"""We live like rock stars
Dance on every bar
This is who we are,
I don't think we'll ever change"" HeresToNeverGrowingUp"
im a dancer but i was too scared to minor in dance bc im scared itll make me absolutely miserable so im going f 
"Them: Carrie Underwoods music is so boring, you cant even dance to it
Me, an intellectual: "
im telling yall luke is babey i mean cmon his woo and his little dance  
Free Download! Listen And Enjoy This Brand New Amazing Continuous One Hour Deep House Music MixShow Episode Mixed A 
"Drake- One Dance, duh "
Memphis Finest Line Dance Group is dancing during Annieces set!!  at Premiere Palace Ballroom 
NowPlaying Your Mama Don't Dance by Loggins and Messina (02:52) enjoy -in some radio...?  c 
I like to make up my own dance moves &amp; my friends like to record it 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Tighten up by Archie Bell &amp; The Drells on 
"Now Playing: Dead Can Dance / ""Host Of Seraphim"""
global dub zeds dead j.i.d global dance alison wonderland seven lions and thats just whats already bought summer 
i cant really dance i be jiggin
Random fact it is illegal to dance on Good Friday in Germany as it profanes the solemn nature of the day
" we're the same age eye-

That's it, Imma ask to train me how to dance"
 (G)i-dle should do this dance cover too !
"  Should dance to Ginuwine, pony "
None of my bfs better ask me to dance for em cus Ima pull some shit like this tbh 
OTW TO THE DANCE STUDIO~ 
"the sunlight looks more beautiful on Taemin's cheek ~  6v6

Taeminie ,  please take good care of yourself in practi "
"THIS WAS SO MUCH FUN AND I LOVE THIS CONCEPT. 
WOLFIE TEACH DANCE ALWAYS THANK YOU. "
Just finished lighting cues for my rank dance OooOoo
Omg I just found these on Briannas IG Page!  We just filled out papers for her tryouts for Dance as a freshman. La 
tagal dance practice 
*dances the Donarudo dance*
"whoever this ""Dance"" person is, I just blocked her, trolls are ugly"
 yes and this is why i didn't give u any lines so u may dance abruptly
"Make up classes tomorrow morning!
Technique 8:15-9:15am
Both Saturday Pre-K classes 9:15-10am
Conditioning 10-11am"
  Burned off a few ounces just doing her adorable hyper kitty dance. 
You cant help but to dance to this song 
  The CYA dance has begun...
   I truly belive it has the making of a classic. Two highly skilled athletes wh 
"Another great session with amazing dancers from the Glasgow scene,  its_christianf2k7 raphaellimm , k "
"Dancing with another person has a way of being mental , physical, emotional and spiritual all at the same time. 

C "
That being said. I loved Getter's album and he did not deserve the hate he got on his tour. He is a pioneer in the 
Friday Night  VeniceBeach | Dance with DJs  and  | Free Hugs and Hi Fives  
We wore casual Namine and Xion khcosplay to the SakuraCon2019 masquerade ! It was fun to dance around and see 
"he says he can dance ...
Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch "
 C'mon Ryan. Trumps base is a distraction - - PUTIN is the one that will get Trump reelected or close 
What can my therapist explain that dance floor anthem by good charlotte cant
"Thriving sports:
NFL players dance and celebrate after TDs
NBA players point to the air or pound their chests after "
Day 4  plz react to Ten and WinWins dance that they choreographed themselves! I think you would really be 
My baby girl and her friends all ready to go to the cotillion dance together. girlsjustwannahavefun 
":) dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif, teeth, viernes, c "
Yall we're gon get boy with luv dance practice i can promise yall that. My prediction tells me skksks that we are getting one
Watching  dance on  just made my night!!! Absolutely hilarious!!!! 
I feel like Chuck and Nancy have spared no expense to erect a seven-story blinking neon sign that reads we fucking 
"Right you... dance to uh... 
yes your little sister dances to kpop"
    Naw...Maxine waters over the ape.  Sorry Im not into the Darwin Dance.
"I had a super fun time at the dance workshop today, thank you  for being such a great teacher!"
 Will you dance for the money? Dance whiteboy dance! 
" sir. Happy for Petta100days . He is My brother son, 3 years old. He always ask us to play this so "
Why does this girl almost fall over after every dance move  
anybody remember those dance tutorials and rap battles on comcast on demand 
Would you rather sit closest to the bar or closest to the dance floor at a wedding with open bar 
"This is my dance partner, &amp; my best friend (It's very hard to find someone who's less about the technique in choreo "
the dance had me screaming  
anyways someone download clcs like it dance practice for me pls
yall make things sooo deep  ITS JUST A DANCE
Harry Styles is playing at Panera  might dance with my sister
i just wanna dance with somebody who love me
Kyrie dance move jus have u lookin 
"Forget stretching, this Garfield dance will be my Morning routine once I learn that dance "
un max de sons hit and  dance enjoy  Mathame - Fade In To You (Original Mix)   
&amp; dance. i hella wanna dance. im in such an AMAZING mood.
"*looks on Gum Tree for a Kitchen Sink to include in Monday nights free dance* 
DWTSau GrandFinale"
AvNeil Christmas dance on Ishq Bulawa Naamkarann
why did that 5 seconds make me wanna dance 
" i mean at the end of the day, a dance is a dance. doesnt matter if a pwi does it, hbcu, or msi "
I hope you dance always makes me cry because my mom would sing that song to me as a kid and tell me thats her song for me and I just 
"  I love when they jump up and kick out. The ""Elaine"" dance."
      Do you need right wing sites 
" Dance: What I was just asking a question???

Music: .....Yeah awkward question

Lyric: Well probably for you two it is"
"nice to meet you alive, teach me how to dance jsy "
Dance with my father again came on and I bursted into tears. I miss my pawpaw mane 
See you next Saturday buddy ! We better have a dance party!   
 Lol. This guy nailed Dances face.
" Man, I remember getting very into the Terminal Tower EP; Modern Dance and Dub Housing in high school "
"Plan for next week: get egged, get SCP containment breach for stream, climb 100 flights of stairs, defeat the destr "
"Heres a song for you Solo Dance by Martin Jensen
"
 Happy birthday to our Liesl! Come watch her dance May 2-4!
  No aw. I can't dance. And that was 10 bucks I never got back
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Living In The UK by Shakatak on  
this song makes me want to get on my toes and dance to some disco  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock The Logical Song by Supertramp on  
"I want to write stories, poems, and such activities that includes writing, I wanna sing and take up some voice less "
 Zizek admitted defeat in the first minute. The rest was a beautiful dance over common ground. And showi 
-charlotte AFRO-BEAT Dance Classes will be taking place Tomorrow Saturday  click link in Bio to secure your spo 
Let's go baby and dance now Ain't No Stoppin' (Original Extended) [ft. Ben Hague] by Ferry Corsten on 
A guy at my local dance clubs NOW
 It's the please God make it stop dance.
"Wild, Rutting Animals Pour Onto Prom Dance Floor  "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Everybody's Beautiful by Miasha on  
This urban thriller is frightening and captivating with lots of twists and turns. DevilWindsDance urbanthriller 
learning lisas swalla dance wish me luck on my journey
 I have so much fun dancing like an idiot while getting ready to go dance like an idiot with you in public 
Jill is actually the most annoying mom on dance moms just sit down n shut up hen 
" It was just for fun!

That weird dance looked better with fire.  "
 I love her so much because of how talented she is and because she was my 1st pick ever since produc 
Now playing: 'LET'S DANCE' by 'CHRIS REA'
Kids Dance Teacher Wanted (Norwalk)  
"I want   , and   to teach me how to dance and get my body together cause baby "
 i just wanna private dance for him
omfg good night i rlly want to slow dance with jisung
 B but you ask me to dance on kemistry 
I have never been more in love with a girl dancing some dance from pubg  
"Dance floor population: 350
Bar population: 18"
Dont dance but I make moves 
When you are watching   on  and they play SurferGirl and we dance in the livingroom because its 
"   Well, um. BTS are the first thing ever in everything. I think we already had that e "
dance time Friday 
"Jai Shree Ram Vs Jai Bholenath | Trance DJ Dance Mix Song

Enjoy and stay connected with us!!
Subscribe to AG Music "
IKONIC DANCE FRIDAY'S: THE PUPPET &amp; THE PUPPET MASTER | Short film by      T 
5 years ago today I met  at  . I hugged Xander and didn't want to let go. I had so much 
party hat but its DARK which reminds me of 19 which triggers my 3am brain and  reminds me of how much id like to sl 
Bamboom Dance Crew is proud to present our annual Spring Workshop Series! This year our workshops will be held ever 
"OG Grimm bros Snow White has some odd differences. The Queen is actually her mom, and wishes to have a super hot da "
  Chaos Dance Awe? Unswah? 
 the dance team that performs with the band
Dance team* twitter give us the edit button I dare you
"  NO ""Soup For You""...Had you had them doing (whatever those lit'l ones call) a dance, (n "
"A desperate widow, a lying father, and a labyrinth of a mansion.  Check out the historicalfiction WHERE DEMONS DAN "
Maybe I should get drunk and dance naked. 
My guy and I just competed over who can do the Tina dance better 
"ThePerfectDate is really phoning it in halfway through... All the cliches: Cant Buy Me Love Premise, plot hinges "
 I first got really into BTS after they released DNA! I remember being completely entranced from their 
I think I actually may dance salsa
Sitting here. Slightly tipsy. Sipping wine. With no nigga to dance for. Pathetic
I used to be afraid during storms. Now I dance during them.
i miss picolandia i wanna go dance 
" SOPE layout this April Fools
SOPE dance in BWL

SOPE Nation is well fed"
 We stan dance legends together 
WGS Spring Fling dance!  at Woodbury Grammar 
Tomorrow Im going to the dance museum and Im so beyond excited like can you even imagine Im probably going to ex 
Dance For You while carving roast pork. Ultimate mum behaviour
     Misnomer. Its not our oil. It used to be our oil until 
Seders with small children in attendance are exhausting in a whole different way. I've never had a seder with a pos 
 look whos trolling ntr dancing father wil do excercise if u want him to dance and son ok no comments 
 Oh no no. Varun can DANCE.
cant really dance i be jiggin
 Sounds like a white person dance on Cinco De Mayo
" My favorite is Booker, but I will dance my happy ass to the polls and vote for whoever gets the no!"
I dance like him when I'm high 
give me brain like boyer school of dance -nicki minaj
     Romney always strikes me as the guy Lawrence 
 Shiki - Dance with devils 
 I sing and belly dance
"So do you know how to dance?
Check it out for some must-know tips, and watch the video for a French lead! "
"Ashten, you are beautiful inside &amp; out. I am SO proud of the young woman you have become. I hope you always dance l "
Blackpink's don't know what to do dance practice 
  I hope you guys decide to do a music video for EF U. It may not be that party/dance hit bu 
"      Oh yeah- from buzzfeed, cn "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Unlimited Capacity For Love by Grace Jones on  
HEY GUYS!!! Prom is in 6 days!!! Dont forget tickets are in sale Monday-Thursday of this week. Ticket will NOT be 
" Beyonc: 
elaborate sets
visuals
costume changes
backup dancers
intricate choreography
multiple se "
i cant have kids cus if they dont dance like this i will throw them away lmao  
boys are now allowed on the dance team i'm-
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Luvstruck
 - Southside Spinners
 "
" All I can deduce from this tweet, the whole lotta work Bey needs to put in just to entertain her f "
dance pool parties go hard with the hand stand contests 
matt took me to a dance hall and somehow everyone knows every dance to every song and honestly this is why i love s 
  Dam I was so curious to see how they would dance this song an I was so impressed like I ca 
I jus want a cup of crack juice and some dance
Im tired of going out.  The clubs aint even fun in Wichita no more. All yall be wanting to do is stand around ( 
"All this and more today and tomorrow.
Coming??

bachata salsa dance merengue reggaeton dj music "
"  Loona music is tasteless, thats why they never won on a music show, and none of them can "
Post in What Are You Listening To?  Georgia - About Work the Dance Floor   
i just really wanna see some pair skaters do an exhibition to i dont dance from high school musical. the POWER the 
   Can't wait to dance with y'all too
"Get Wild feat NoeL(TM NETWORK Cover Song) Enjoy!

Youtube


GetWild TM_NETWORK "
" yes, i understand if some people can't 'feel' his dance, and this is me saying we as ikonic, someone who k "
   How is helping build the wall a scam? Where did you actually see guns pointed at women and children?
"If it wouldn't wake up my kids, I'd do a happy dance right now! Thank you all so much for helping me reach 500! "
oof that was sm floor work but it was fun :( its been 4-5 weeks since dance :/
 We had a dance to this shit and it def had us in our feelings lol she did tf outta this song
Let's go baby and dance now Shake the Pressure (Mylo Mash Up Edit) by Deekline &amp; Ed Solo on  
She wanna dance but she aint got that ass for it  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Welcome To The Pleasuredome (Fruitness Mix) by Frankie Goes To Hollywood on 
      You havent yet.
" *one wire come out and looks at Dance and Lyric* .....

Freakshow: *laughs*"
We still cry hard but dance even harder  
I hate not knowing how to dance
so turns out two people that used to be in the dance team at my high school choreographed dionysus.....
" Listen she could jus be standing there in the music video for speechless and it would be good 

An "
if the whole world was watching Id still dance with you x
   Times were different if Beyonce dies today no one will cry like the way p 
people really think bokuto would be a bad boyfriend as if he wouldn't tell akaashi a bunch of stupid puns to make h 
"""The truest expression of a people is in its dance and in its music.  Bodies never lie."" -Agnes de Mille"
"BEEN TRYING TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THIS PAGE FOR WEEKS!  MAY HAVE TO DEKETE IT AND REDO .

I'LL WAIT A BIT MORE THEN "
Hitting the woah is the adult version of a fortnite dance.
 trying a little dance battling with his brothers!! 
Watching Hobi dance to DNA is an experience i want tattooed on the inside of my eyelids
Pariss Cathedral of Imagination andMemory 
" I totally CALLED It
 *Insert happy dance*
TogetherWe I don't even care about a prize I just loved I c "
Digital Underground - The Humpty Dance
"When you see your homie after work..
.
Friday belike tgif dance 
.

.
Repost  with get_repost
 "
I rotate between rnb/hiphop and dance/house music phases all throughout the year
Get up and dance!   Cerrone -  Cerrone's Paradise (Remix By Joey Negro).   
"To the extreme, I rock a mic like a vandal
Light up a stage and wax a chump like a candle
Dance
Bum rush the speake "
Best rock pop dance music Now Ooh La La La (Let's Go Dancing) by Kool &amp; The Gang on 
"     ..and when Dems start up again, I make a "
"If Beyonc ever asks me to dance for her, ima pull out all the tricks, bells, and whistles"
Do you wanna dance with me!!
Fuck I'm suddenly anxious hhhhhh imma go dance brb
my playlist for songs to dance around to at the gym is honestly so good just by itself
" Tony with your lame jokes but cos she's the maknae, has to listen to you anyway  when will you guys "
My little friend Alex came to visit the Easter Bunny tonight. Last year he got to dance with the Bunny and walk him 
"""Hops coat check always fucks me up, I wanna dance not wait in line for my coat"""
 He still owes me that carnival dance lol - when hes ready for an older woman he knows where to find me
 Was that goaltender interference in the Boston/Toronto game?? I think  were robbed. Even 
" Setting the bowl beside me, leaning back on my hands to watch Blondie dance around my bedroomand "
NCT TEN | Freestyle Dance | HUMBLE. (Kendrick Lamar)  via 
 *Where
"did i make the twins do the chicken dance for Easter? yes i did 

and   you did an eggcelle "
 Im on that gnac I wanna dance
New Order - Bizarre Love Triangle (Extended Dance Mix)  via 
Have to decide what song to dance with my cousin tomorrow for her quinceaera. (She's subbing the father daughter d 
FORTNITE Dance Moves 2019  via 
" Yes!I was the quintessential somewhat athletic, yet a girly girl too. I helped my Dad work on cars, climbed "
i just wanna dance tn
 What are you getting your information? There were no guns pointed at women and children.
Start your Easter weekend off with some dancing with me! Join me tomorrow morning at the Botetourt Family YMCA at 8 
"Its goin down right now at Taylors Of Houston. If your looking for some EDM, this is where its at. Huge venue, l "
"Whats the best antidote to a crazy 13 hour day on the wards?? A solo Beychella dance along, thats what. Reflecti "
"Play date with her dance friend..  (yes I did Kylies hair, first time dont judge!) "
Do you like the best music? Listen now The adventures of Rain dance Maggie by Red Hot Chili Peppers on 
im unbeatable at Just Dance 3. I call it my J.D Power.
 CEO AU where ur a fellow ceo of a dance academy and his music label needs dancers for his awards show 
"Got Talent? Put it to some good use at the Center's talent show on May 5 at 12:30 pm. Feel free to sing, dance, tel "
The best part about being ugly and gay is that I've never had to explain to a girl why I declined their invitation 
"  They don't answer hard questions that prove them wrong, instead they dance around them and "
"NowPlaying - Zorba's Dance - Hammond Sauce Works Band
- 
SUPPORT OUR ADVERTISERS "
 Tell me why I start to sing and rap along and dance 
     Yasss!!! The Lab I love them in World Of Dance 2018 t 
  Same dance  
 Saturday Country Night 4/20 9-1am  Show up early for the 7:30pm line dance lesson. rochesterny 
Dance in the flooor  
tonight we listen to nobody by mitski and cry instead of dance but tomorrow we will switch yea switch like....
  Loool Ronece can actually dance now goodbye
"   Play their modern Hollywood crack, dance with duck feet"
"  First time I heard it, I thought it was a way to dance the tango backwards!"
 tonight I'm gonna dance for all that we've been through!!!  yas girl! me and  started ou 
No to the girls... I dance for the dollars to  for every other girl you meet is to shazgy.
 dance with me   oh and Barbie I hope you don't mind that me and your 
4 of 5 stars to A Dance with Dragons by George R.R. Martin 
 Im going out to dance with you tomorrow.
And everybody show up ready to watch movies til we drunk. Then dance and sing the rest of the night away.
That little happy dance you do when you get food &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
 Then its time to dance with the angels
 Also a place called sneaky dees sometimes host artist themed dance parties (their strokes one happened 
Let's go baby and dance now Lights (Fear Of Tigers Remix) by Ellie Goulding on  
Dont let a little rain stop you from partying  Join that Italian Stallion Vinny tonight for that $85 bottle deals 
 Their dance to Bolein chudiyan was so on point 
"but the more he got to know Jisung, the less opportunity he had to reveal himself.

Jisung was furious, and kicked "
Chinese kindergarten principal fired after kids welcomed with pole dance 
"Then... Chenle confesses to Jisung, telling him that his dance was so captivating, his stage presence was charming "
 drop the dance practice
"What do you get when you combine music and gym??  History of Modern Social Dance!

My favorite!  Holly and Darcy, y "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Sale Mambo by Dick Rivers on  
"wHat'S yoUR taLEnt? 
 draw
 sing
 dance
 D-2 exam anD sTilL dUmB :&gt; "
I will dance infront of Mamta Banerjee's home !  
     Nah- every month auto w/d.
"Just loved ""Msd.Remixes ... Club Dance Mission Vol.103"" by Msd.Remixes / Michail.D on  "
"Back to the grind! lighting csuf @ California State University, Fullerton Department of Theatre &amp; Dance "
"  Yes. Yes, he is. Or perhaps hes auditioning for a position in the WH again. Fleischer th "
"if an actor drops a bottle during the bottle dance next week during one of the shows, hear me screech in the pit"
"TheRudeDogShow | Rudy Reyes welcomes back   Premier Cornerback on life, dance on "
"Let me practice real quick, gotta make sure I hit these dance moves MillenniumTour"
 Safety Dance - Men Without Hats
Invest in your ministries to go to the next level!!   Register Now!! &amp; Get those tickets!!! VAdelegate 
This was so hilarious! I had to repost. This is how Im gonna dance at the Dungeon..   
Chinese kindergarten principal fired after kids welcomed with pole dance via /r/nottheonion  
 D dance b 2gh d gal way mount ur back b 4gh Den  d soroku b 10gh making 16gh I buy it cash  lol  u do all 
     I felt like safety &amp; security was getting closer &amp; closer.
CORY JOSEPH MAY I HAVE THIS DANCE
" Ohh.. This wanna make me dance with somebody
wanna feel the heat!!!
With somebody who loves me!!"
 can we have Lets Dance by Bowie please? mojoplayme
"Nice lage ning Don't Know What To Do, dance practice sa blackpink ayyy "
" She is in hip hop, Irish dance,  girl guides and basketball lol! Hip hop is her passion. I hope sh "
"Look, look! The kitties are all in a row doing a line dance~

Jumping with a pop, and dancing all cute!"
      Hate? Try Facts. I can back 
   You just gotta dance like there's no tomorrow after living through such a situation.  HAH-HAH-HAH.
Drilling Buckle Dance Shoes Ballroom Women Latin shoes Modern Dancing Wear-resistant Sole Sweat Absorption Deodoran 
   Suprize us on your next one Tim do a dance or backflip  can't wait Go Tim 
"comments underneath every kpop dance cover: omg you did it so well!! its just like the original 

the dance cover: "
 Lance wanna dance?
"5 out of 6 of the schools above us are Ivy League. 

To get the full impact of what it means for  to ran "
        
Cum have fun! Dont wanna miss seeing me dance ! Ask for Lola   until 3Am  
ladies and gentlemen we interrupt our program of dance music to bring you a special bulletin from the intercontinen 
How This Taylor Swift Backup Dancer Stays Pescatarian on the Road - Dance Magazine...  
How This Taylor Swift Backup Dancer Stays Pescatarian on the Road - Dance Magazine...  
My friend sent me a video of her twerking to the baby shark song haha dead babyshark twerk ass dance walmart 
Thank you for running Karri. I remember our conversation so well and I remember our happy dance. I'm honoured to ca 
why do all the dudes with long hair fuckin destroy dance dance revolution
 Turner you need to dance you way out of office!
 this dance move........
Solange adds more personality and flair to her dance moves. 
So my 8 y.o. just drew a bunch of illuminati symbols in the condensation on the door while she was taking a shower. 
"Tonight: Lowrider Oldies, Street Soul, Northern Soul! Suavecito Souldies Dance Party @ the Uptown @ The UPTOWN "
"3/ I know the steps by heart. The Dance is ingrained in me. Open me up, expose blood and sinew and find the notes o "
"This is embarrassing and Im doing this because I hate myself, but thats an old video of me trying miserably to da "
"Creative Arts Night is coming back to The Rock! Whether you are an actor, or you sing, dance, paint, YOU are invite "
"Our organization in Haiti has a program for 20 kids. They get help with after school homework, and we have traditio "
To conclude dance club week we have our dance clinic tomorrow !!! LETS MAKE THIS BIG 
Last weeks bracelet recipient was Sarah Hanna. Sarah has several different favorite styles of dance including mode 
when i get married the first dance song will be tokyo drift
" Dance: So Music and Circus have you two thought about having more kids

Music: ......what.....

Lyric: *laughs a little*"
" Spencer took his teammate bitch, and then got on the dance floor with her lmao"
attending Hello Weekend Dance Party at Social 25 at Social Twenty Five 
     Good. That's less money for you to donate 
DANCE MOMS VA A VOLVER???
"No. You don't get to interfere with our touchdown dance.

AllYourDreamsAreDead 

 "
"Highlights of the KKRvRCB match:
 CLASSICAL DANCE of Kohli
 Vintage knock from Ali
 Classical in vain inning "
"      We love to. U, pls donate "
" 10-19(1/1)
It must be a very pretty dance, said Alice timidly."
Im not entirely sure anyone can dance exactly the way they did with someone else George. TOTP
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Searching by Mary J. Blige on  
LETS GOOOOO  FormationFridays at   Todays hits with a classic twist  10pm-2am  openformatdj dance 
music 24/7 now playing Dance Again by Jennifer Lopez Feat. Pitbull on  
Im scootin my happy ass across the dance floor tonight
This nigga Brayshaun said I think Im finna go to the party because I wanna fuck the party up with my dance moves LMFAOOO
"At Thalia Hall tonight, and  are killing it! Dope music with great beats to dance to."
So I just started watching on my block and Im fucking heated cause Ruby is just sitting while his grandma is danci 
"Whatever you do, do it with style 
tgif happy happyweekend love dance smile beauty hautecouture black "
Dance for you
"Holy war in the land of fire
Never tempt the
Wrath of gods
Gonna dance in the death of life
Never sell
Evil for lie "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : These Days
 - Rudimental Ft. Jess Glyne, Macklemore, Dan Caplen
 "
"Sawyer, from cats don't dance"
"JAMES BROWN  Escape-ism (Part1)  via  

Dance Time 
  
 "
"   Look like.. it rehearsal of..
Aahladha prakadanam dance
on Pappu's win in waynad?"
"His microphone broke!
FrankyReyes bachata"
"Amazing something, go to my bio for the link to the holy ghost inspired , sound... And yessss dance your feet off.. "
 YAAMPUN DANCE LINE
" ""Oh yo hoeish ass got jokes. Alright Female Annakyn, let's dance."""
Purchased the Nighthare skin and also the bunny hop emote! fortnite fortniteskins fortnitebr 
learning dance moves from this queen so that i could slay the dance floor 
"  The folk dance version is much more entertaining. Even Jane might like them lol
"
What a fun evening celebrating the beautiful diversity we have at WO. Students shared about their culture through a 
"SUCKER IS ON, I GOTTA DANCE"
Gothy vibes (as gothy as it gets for me) for the Coffin Club tonight at Astoria.  Excited to dance and see a bunch 
"NowPlaying The Way I Are (Dance With Somebody) - Bebe Rexha LISTEN LIVE:
"
The Lab choreographed for BTS???? Omg I cheered so much for them when they went on the world of dance.  
"I've watched this dance break so many times Beychella. Also, the background dancers were absolute beasts."
  Ill bring some rattlesnakes for them to dance with.
 lmaoooo chill. well have a dance and dinner this week
CRY HARD DANCE HARDER
Someone teach me how to dance so I can go to arena and bailes more often :/
one day ima give my nigga a lap dance like cardi gave offset in the clout video 
I wanna go out and dance but I have two friends in my city and they dont wanna go out 
Im tryna drink and dance
Save the last dance for me
"Jackiem Joyner - Dance With Me.   smoothjazzsouthflorida
"
"My friend showed me Ten and WinWins dance to Lovely by Billie Eilish and Khalid today and,,, I think Im in love"
Bryan Ferry - Don't Stop The Dance
      I wouldn't care if Lindor hit a home 
yES DANCE LINE MY SUPERIOR TRIO OH GOD I LOVE THEM 
You know youre too old for smokeys when youre the only ones doing Saturday night dance 
all my irls to me since i said i would take dance classes at the millennium two summers ago but i HAVE YET TO TAKE 
Baby vem no dance
NowPlaying Anthya - Unrealizable Love Ep on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
 And why did Arkansas not make the dance....?
Lol as much as I like to dance in my home I do not have much rhythm compared to my sisters shit skipped me
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock I'll Be Good To You by Quincy Jones on  
 Nice.. dance.
"The parkinsons
Walk &amp; Dance 19 "
"  Oh? What I wouldnt give to see you dance. He smirked, winking at her, just daring her to press fu "
 It has been a grueling week! So I am really doing this dance
when your parents ask you to dance for your relatives 
"What do you get when you combine music and gym??  History of Modern Social Dance!

Taught them the pony (through Ap "
       These days I hv to agree.
"sometimes i see art thats so good i do a lil fortnite dance but like, in my heart"
" CHAEYEON                                       - i love the way she dance, sing , laugh i think i "
" The one thing I noticed about her was her vocals, even with Destiny's child she always had that soul th "
 KangDaniel won a survival show by captivating the public with his beautiful dance line and charisma. 
I just listened to bus down thotiana from beginning to end and I cant believe Im stressing my ass off teaching an 
"New trending GIF tagged dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tg "
i want to go to a party w mexican music but i cant dance n im shy!!! 
Almost got ran over by three different cars while walking in Laurel. Pound really trying to get me to improve my dash dance game or else
"Told my dad I was going out salsa dancing, he told me no Mija we are going salsa dancing  catch me and dad on th "
"Nashville Tribute Collection - Baby, Let's Lay Down and Dance (Garth Brooks)"
Jaeyoon's dance skills are srsly underrated ohmygoodness JAEYOON SF9inChicago  
Dance Party was a blast! Join us for GroovFit Monday night at 6:30! GoldsGymOrmondBeach
Fun time with dance peeps @ Union County Youth Ballet 
When you a try find a girl in a di dance a Ochi 
" At first, I really don't know why I like her, just when I see her part in LVER MV, that's the momen "
" Im not doing this dance with you. If you want to argue the findings of the report, READ it first. The "
"christian is tryna drag me on the dance floor but i, a person who enjoys sitting,"
"Before I developed complications from EDS, I loved to dance. Now mostly I just watch and yearn. For instance last n "
      Agree.
"do u think harry went home after the BLACKPINK concert and did the egirl dance in that kilt he wore, recorded it, p "
"Would you care to dance with me? Fufu, don't worry about stepping on my feet. I shall guide you~"
"Had the nickname Gojira (Godzilla) in primary school.
Has been participating in dance lessons since Grade 1.
MiichanFacts"
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby When The Sun Comes Down by Incognito on  
"4TH QUARTER Dance break 
"
"Hinduism 
The spirit of Brahman inherent in the Higher Self of man, must be watching the splendour of the Cosmic D "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Distance
 - Nicky Romero Ft. Olivia Holt
 "
Best rock pop dance music Now History (I Remember) by George Duke on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Punch in the Face by Sound Ideas on  
 yup  get a playlist of a couple of dance/rave songs. act a fool by the time you know you sweating bullets 
" Oh I love that song, pitty I can't have a dance with you right now. I guess I will have to imagine that I am... xx"
Truly enjoyed my time Assessing the George Brown College dance students! Thank you  for always making i 
E-Motion - Dance To The Music (Eurodance)
"   Yeah, you are about as smart as a goat. But keep coming here. it only pro "
All Im saying is Beyonc will have a entire dance break or dance while she singing and NEVER sound winded! BABY GIRL 
 i mainly just learn the choreo or just dance around but sometimes if im home alone ill do actual workouts
 New fusion dance
"precisely 1 yr ago i made a joke about how min wage should be $69/hr and max @ $420/hr ,,, t b h thats a better ec "
"""I'd be honored to dance with you again~."""
Made my couple dance battle tonight at the end of their session and it did not disappoint  
Yuri appeared in a Super Juniors movie Attacks of the pin up boys and she play as a ballerina who in the end get 
Victory dance  chiefs wewon 25yearwait mahomesmagic MVPtoMTE  
 No but still love to dance to it.
"  Really
Swalla dance
D4 remix  (to hype the crowd even more)
ariana x blackpink picture"
" And no sports fans knows being hurt like a Blues fan. 50 years, never a cup. 47 year drought to the "
I wanna give my boo a lap dance 
When will newspaper weirdos realize that learning that crazy Russian dance (you know the one) is a GOOD thing? Have 
It's a marvelous night for a Moon dance.  dumaguete
So dance party USA was just basically a white version of Soul train.
Laredo + a dance party: not sure what more you need.
VICTORY DANCE tonight        
Sope dance FOR EVERY BWL PERFORMANCE 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Turn It Up by Busta Rhymes on  
" I was dancing Just Dance 2 days ago and I twisted my left foot, imagine me trying just 10 secs of theirs choreography"
 I think you did marvelous and Im excited to see what you do next for dance.
Libras are a fucking gift. Especially my brother. He knows I've been struggling with trying to find dance stuff to 
i really paid to get into sakuracon just to end up playing just dance lot (im tired but its fun)
"New trending GIF tagged dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tg "
" If your mouth is burning it might be herpes. 

Or the shawty on the dance floor "
Update.....Taylor can now do the Thizzle dance at 9 months. What can your 9 month old do?! 
"New trending GIF on GIPHY dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, "
"  Catch a local dance show at the 
   is doing The Secret Garden "
"I WANT TO SAY SOMETHING I REALIZED WATCHING WAKEY WAKEY DANCE PRACTICE.

That it's really good to see Hyuck and I l "
Theres this lil dance I do to Money by Cardi in the mirror when Im getting dressed
  True that
 Dance harder.
I really want a date for the Burna boy concert so I can dance on someone all night
"Whatever you do, do it with style 
tgif happy happyweekend love dance smile beauty hautecouture black "
Youth Dance &amp; Adult Afrobeats | Sat. 04-20 | 2:30PM &amp; 4:00PM | 345 Chambers St. |  
      I'm beginning to think that 
white people really dont know how to dance huh
had a good cry now gonna go dance at a club. water weight bye bye byes
 Omg no we can do it and also we still need to do the whitney houston bobby brown glasses dance
" Take some dance classes ! You can get out of the house, make friends ANDDD learn some hecka great moves"
"telling you rn, going to a dance club with me is more than fun "
" It changes your mood in an instant, of course I dont dance around the house, I have my guitars, I crank up the amp!"
 I'm doing a happy dance right now!
Community dance party   via 
" lead dance, main rapper
Oldest
Jyp/cube
Jongho ateez"
    Hey Hargoon has to dance to Weasels tune. Greens running th asylum!
"Also also, doesn't have to be drawings! Do you dance? Sculpt? Make suits? Share!"
" You are welcome, Laurie. I know how much effort and passion a person must put into Dance. You should "
Me *trying to* dance 
"Stream anywhere, but if you prefer bandcamp: "
 This is literally looks like she playing just dance skskks 
NEXT FRIDAY!!! 04/26: D.C.'s best Throwback Hip-Hop /R&amp;B Dance party Returns! The  [  
      He does. He doesnt play f 
Hip Hop  Dance Masterclass Help us send her off in style!  Come thru for  's final Dynasty Mast 
lol just because the recently watch on yt is ikon's dance practices
" they see it ... I admire them a lot, they give The best of me at all times and in all places, thanks for i "
 True that and people actually dance at those things too
Me singing both parts of Dance Gavin Dance songs 
I dont have to go to a club half dressed. I dont have to go and shake my ass on anyone either. Got on the dance f 
MY DANCE KINGS Y'ALL 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Mister Magic [Album Version] by Esther Phillips on 
"  You were raped? At least you werent murdered

Had a miscarriage? At least you can get "
 Them no Dey write for doorstrippers no get nyash here and no sabi dance so how I go know ?
NowPlaying Dance With Me by 112 on UrbanRadio Old School R&amp;B 
"What do you get when you combine music and gym??  History of Modern Social Dance!

Taught them the sprinkler, shopp "
Let's go baby and dance now Keep On Movin' by Soul II Soul on  
"  The teacher need to know how to dance and leave that boy alone.

""One day the teache "
Best rock pop dance music Now In Between Days by The Cure on  
Look for their mating dance ritual IfYouNeedAVillageIdiot 
A Dark Oklahoma! Brings Barefoot Modern Dance toBroadway 
 Diddy. Merry slick got one dance move she just keep jazzing it up.Diddy on da other hand do that dancin shit fr!
*Casually has dance battle with my niece*
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Underground &amp;40;Radio Edit&amp;41;
 - Quintino
 "
 No default dance? Smh 
omg those people dont know how to dance to la chona  
favorite hobby  dance!! 
"~ player.

Needless to say, some shit was a blur. But with dumb plastic crowns on our heads and the light of the mo "
END! OF! TIME! AFRICAN DANCE THEMED! THE BEAT BREAKSDOWN AND BEY GOES INTO TRIBAL CHOREOGRAPHY. 
nowplaying Welcome To The Dance by Des Mitchell
I have always wanted to learn how to pole dance it looks so much fun 
      Good- PLEASE go donate. Watc 
 When my daughter was 3 she told me she was a Barney kid and threw countless tantrums that I couldnt 
dance line visual line vocal line rap line 
"I wanna go out, listen to some ratchet music and dance."
I just discovered blackpink videos and they are freaking fierce oh my god to dance like that
 Bro that is the most epic sister dance ever
I put on dj got us fallin in love then dynamite and we're back at my freshman year welcome dance basically
The talent of both voice and dance is not matched 
"slow dance of
warm fingertips..."
        Wow you're dancing a 
"   First of alllllllllll, no one asked nobody to dance soooooooo"
"Happy 30th birthday to Beyonc's dance captain, the beautiful   "
Yay! New stuff to read! *happy dance*
"      Well, the only decent Democra "
 I just watched it to see you dance.
"  I certainly hope ur right about that...
And I hope that I live long enough to dance on his grave."
"Interested in joining our Kpop Dance Cover Group?

-Upload a video of yourself dancing to any song with "
"BUT

HE

CAN

DANCE
 Splatoon2 NintendoSwitch "
ive known that one of my fav SoulCycle instructors is part of Beyoncs dance crew but i still surprisingly fangir 
It's not that I don't enjoy the club scene every now and then.  I'll dance and have a drink or two but two hours is 
 What types of dance did you do?
"Nobody:

People who know how to dance:
"
That dance/rave sequence near the beginning of Matrix Reloaded I think of a lot. Like too much. Even in my dreams.
Having dance party's with your daughter to songs you grew up with is a necessity. No matter her age
Dance clubs for Tesla employees and owners + friends. Partner with companies like  
"  Marry The Night
Alejandro
GUY
Bad Romance
Telephone
Judas
TEOG
Applause
Paparazzi
Born T "
" Dance: *blushes a little* I think they all sound cute.....

Lyric: .....why....me... &gt;_&lt;

Music: Lol"
  Doesnt matter how much you tap dance or try to look like a Kardashian or try to 
"MLG starts soon
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 To each their own type."
"Not gonna lie , dance dance revolution is lit"
Now playing Our House by Madness music best hits rock pop dance on  
I dont know bts very well but.. please look up The Lab dance performances from world of dance....................
"Reposting  
...
""Thanks to  for this amazing shoot, the creative spark was full force thi "
"no one : 

literally not a single soul: 

our dance god Hoseok:  
"
Ashley isnt Beyoncs best dancer. Idk why shes the dance captain lol
" Nah. Put a bunch of heavy clothes on her so she looks like a puffy version of herself, then put on "
Who winnin in a dance off Mary J Blige or Diddy?
" Well then, may have the first dance? "
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listening "
"The kids at this prom keep requesting songs that you cant dance to. IS THIS WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS?
I am fearful fo "
 which emote? dance?
His favorite shows are So You Think You Can Dance and Smallville.
One Last Dance...
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Bayen Habeit
 - Marshmello Ft. Amr Diab
 "
"fashion twitter, please help me. i am looking for a purple summer bridesmaid dress that doesnt look obviously like "
  Dance your ass off!! 
Ihire ka namos ORSEM sa shs para mag dance og kill this love  you really like teasing me huh  
a dance battle between ur local crackhead and that white girl that keeps dancing to dalla dalla on my tl
  in the DJ Booth and a view of the dance floor at Soundcheck for the  annual weekend char 
May the dance move you.
I love a man who can dance 
"What do you get when you combine music and gym??  History of Modern Social Dance!

Heres Elvis, the mashed potato, "
Check out ZUMBA 3 Pce.SET! HIP HOP Honey Harem Pants +Tee+Street Orlando Dance Shoes U.K.   via 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Gangsters by The Specials on  
/ im on the valentines day episode where chris djs the dance
he made my legs weak asf so i cant dance tonight  imma be out on the dance floor bambi walkin
i dreamt about having friends to dance and party with now i wake up and i'm sad 
Dance with me~
 is all that I need to take the stress away &amp; just dance
dance line are so beautiful
 Took the time you were away and taught myself your dance  can we see some more of it???
Joe Claussell - With More Love ( Dance Version )
"1/ 

They called it Dance of the Dead
Ironic. 

 O
   N
     E

Two 

T
     H
          R
             E "
  Alright Ill come over and we can watch and dance to Beychella !!! 
" Look, a dance off"
What dance should I learn first?
 Iast dance!!
Baby Groot briefly transforms the Galaxy (and the Marvel action machine) into one big dance floor  via 
Am I the only who does the dance routines to the songs the boys performed on tour?
Now playing Baby Be Mine by Michael Jackson music best hits rock pop dance on  
Folk Dance In D For Pianos 
i turned on diva and thought i could dance through the transition to flawless and i nearly died so now im listenin to boring shit to recover
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Sun To Me (Radio Edit) by Faithless on  
i want a gf.. Pls. i will hold ur hand &amp; dance with u... make u pastries... give u kisses ___
Best rock pop dance music Now Once Bitten Twice Shy by Ian Hunter on  
"   

Dance in Amway Center ! "
        
" Seriously though, how does anyone describe Cinnamon Girl as a dance song? I gather the author doesn't "
petty is when i was 11 and I would replay Worldwide by BTR and do the dance moves so happily as I watched Jo leave my man kendall
Get your friday dance on. 
"Ever since I saw that video of  getting a lap dance from that guy, I cant look at him the same everyt "
Its always a good time when  shows us he stellar dance moves in The Theater. LIVEatMGM 
DATZGRIMEY is ON w/ DJMBREEZE + GABZBGREAT + NIKSTR: dance fridays - Listen now on Stationhead. 
   Truly the greatest king to exist. Just look at those fabulous dance moves~
"[]
Jaeyoon demonstrating his dance steps. Video taken by a Fantasy

SF9 SF9inUSA SF9inChicago "
Beyonc dance to everybody mad gives me goose bumps
 The amount of Tesla owners around the world +employees of Tesla and subsidiaries will make these dance clubs poppin.
" ""I hope they dance on my grave in my honor, I'd hate a sad funeral.""

    He chuckles, holding the "
I will forever thank my middle school 4th period dance class for giving me moves that I can use to buss down on tik tok 
" I didnt say I created It, I said I made a dance estupida, as in choreo"
"When I was blackout drunk dressed as Captain Morgan, I walked up to my crush at a Halloween party and said I think "
One last dance? 
"It is his second dance competition, he's been writing to his sponsor dad about it for the last four letters. He rea "
I love cabarets until I actually get to the cabaret and realize its just a building full of people I dont like. And also I cant dance.
"dance competition nears. He and his crew win gold, of course. And he almost wishes Chenle was there so he could sha "
"He was never confessed to, gets nervous and flustered, and writes to his sponsor dad for help. A few days later, Ch "
"  Ummm. Because no one treats beyonce like a god (even though no one should be, she does, which "
"Years pass. Jisung graduates from middle school with really good grades, and Chenle sits beside Wendy with a really "
"Jisung's snail mail correspondence with his sponsor continues for a long time, where Jisung talks about his interes "
"Day 110: today Ive been at work and chilling with Alex going to town unexpectedly, going for a dance as we do!! It "
 If hes right Ill dance on video doing the moon walk
"Yall I just started watching Dance Moms. Im speechless, these moms are ruthless lol"
 waltzing on catwalk. Smooth dance move. Ill do the moonwalk on Monday. 
DATZGRIMEY is ON w/ DJMBREEZE + GABZBGREAT + NIKSTR: dance fridays - Listen now on Stationhead. 
A good friend picked this for the first dance at her wedding. I knew then they were doomed.// Percy Sledge When a M 
    This is the best Friday night dance party with my 7 yr old daughter eve 
"gif time dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif, teeth, vi "
"     And the outfits/style they all use, dance moves too. "
I wanna go out to drink and dance
  Dance you wanna call it
"Oh we danced through the night
And we held each other tight
And before too long
I fell in love with her
Now I'll never dance with another"
Can i do a praise dance cuz i feel like we are missing that in the show ZBadBoys19
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Started
 - DJ Afrojack, D.O.D + Tim-ber
 "
" You make me sing, dance, smile; life wouldnt be good without you too.  Thanks for being you, the way "
I really wish I knew how to dance
   Try It Till You But It And Im Doing It For The Dance Mainly
" pLEASE the taste,,, i remember screaming to the twitter live when i saw hyungwon abt to dance it last world tour"
        
"NowPlaying Take It All - Dance Mix by Anna Victoria
   Rivers"
 I just did my happy dance 
 the dance with canes
Angelica dance battled Mayor Graves and then fought the god of this new world.
         
. Last Dance on Skycore sounds dark af and Im bout it. Til the rebirth then its beautiful AF 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Baby Be Mine by Michael Jackson on  
if you dont dance to the songs at the end of a movie who even are you
"What a night for a dance, you know I'm a dancing machine."
" Never go to the dance with the Devil.
-Confuscious?"
"Do a little dance, make a little love. Get down tonight."
i wanna dance :/
         
I hate the girls that go to dance class with Lilo on Lilo and Stitch... snobs 
 Good luck! ;)
draw a F with your bum.
 You did your victory dance too soon.  The Mueller Report clearly shows you are guilty of collusion 
Netizens are going gaga over Ananya Panday`s groovy dance number from her debut movie and we cannot keep calm! 
"LAST CALL! A dance event for this weekend? the York College Youth Dance is tomorrow at 6PM. 135 performers, 12 yout "
I just wanna dance with cows in the kitchen at 2am
"Trying to do sexy dance but, I failed. Sobs. "
I am the biggest third wheel on a night out I just dance on my own ffs 
that dance video is the omly vodeo ever  DVEJSJ NO 
  The dance of the corporate middle manager.  Sounds like wisdom
I cant be the only one who doesnt like moving ver. dance practices
Tangerine Dream - Dolphin Dance
 hey Ellen what's up? Can I come dance on your television show hahah
just wanna listen to records n dance slow
"Deep in the woods, the fairies dance. They dance for the trees. For the night. For the hunt. They sing to the moon, "
 Haha one can dream 
 im crying now and ive seen yall do this dance 3 times
 I read all these comments and it makes me so glad to be a part of the family of God that I could dance.
Dangerous palace. You dance as though in a trance through a valley on fire. Flaming leaves.
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : ONE DIRTY APE-BROTHERS GRIM-WE SPEAK TECHNO-FEB by One Dirty Ape Listen again 
anyways maybe the right way to make ramen is to listen to singularity and dance to that sweet music... to that swee 
" I want a party. Shes been in the business for over 30 years, I want her to revel in her career achi "
"New GIF on dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif, teeth, vi "
" No order-
Photograph- jcole
Dance w the devil- Gucci Mane
Diddy Bop- Noname Gypsy
UP LIKE AN INSOMNIAC- "
Bitches wya I need to dance 
"So you can have tea with R2-D2 while horseback riding, you must do a dance and walk 10 km.."
WEE WEE DANCE
BeFree BeBeautiful BeYOU BeLOVE BedlamFoundry IAmBedlam EDM Spinnin Spinnin'Records SpinninRecords 
"Next year's show...

Divas

Proud Mary - Tina Turner
I Want to Dance with Somebody - Whitney Houston
(You Make Me F "
"so, where's that best of me dance practice??"
   Yall better dance  and make it dir-tayyyy ;)
      Actually Tucker Carlson sai 
i love people watching at parties lmao watching ppl dance awkwardly and drunkenly is so funny 
"Its not karaoke without the dancers!
mapdja dance steptothemic djkks dynamicdjentertainment party fun "
"my cute boy I love you so much, you dance with so much love and you have such a sweet voice, I love you so  "
"Ok that moment during Get Me Bodied, when like ALL TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE ON THE BLEACHERS dance and bounce slowly towa "
Ahoy! Sometimes I like to dance with fresh. Have you seen Death's Daughter?  indiegame gamedev
I won the You better move those feet achievement in Just Dance: Disney Party 2 for 39 TrueAchievement pts 
" I just rewatched Meet Joe Black, for the 100th time. I've been watching it for 20 years. Each time "
"    I dance with the right girl, what are you talking about?"
"And before you start clipping out that statement to make a hilarious dance mix out of it, I wasn't expecting custard pies and a laugh track"
Dance or rap  
 Aww nice!  Shes a good rep for your hometown and that lots of people there respect her.  Maybe yo 
     Hows that? My gift to you. Now KMA.
"because today 
we'll dance the night away 
and this could be the love song 
which makes you wanna stay"
I feel like Im shitting to much to go dance in public
"they keep on convincing me to dance on my day,,, "
Ready For This Dance Class Next Saturday
This weekend is crazy at the Bachata Festival in Baltimore!  Stop by this weekend to see amazing dancers and 
Share it if you like ;) Genesis  Dance On A Volcano  atrickofthetail danceonavolcano 
"My Spotify playlist just did mee ssoooo dirtyy!! On shuffle, it just played BigBang - Last Dance and then 2ne1 - Go "
"    Gay thing was 2002. Human Rights Campaign endorsed her.

Re "
"Hamsters - Hamster Dance(techno remix) 
 via "
Everyone follow  to see awesome updates about Pitt Dance Marathon! h2kids 
Remember their synchronised dance to More Than This  
HEY SKZ DANCE LINE 
"IF I DIDNT HAVE DANCE PRACTICE ON WEDNESDAY, ID GO SEE NCT TBH"
Onmyoji Dimensional barriers are lifted! Come and watch the cute shikigami dance for you! 
Roozbeh teaching me Iranian dance moves  @ Gateau Dore 
listening to kendrick lamars DNA. and imagining BTS doing the dance move in DNA...... duality?
 I love Blackpink since theyve shown women empowerment. I luv their personalities!! They were the first gi 
J.-J. Perrey - The Dance Of The Goblins
All Star by Smash Mouth. Not because I have a good pun but because I manage to get it played at the department retr 
My group member for Dance tricked me into being responsible for the choreography of a part of the song we already c 
 kskskksks qual? can I have this dance?
"I'm getting around to watching part 5 and hit the ""torture dance"" and I'm fucking floored."
Now Playing: Sherrick - Let's Be Lovers Tonight [Extended Dance Mix] | 80s disco funk radio nowplaying  |  [[[ 
"STREAMING LOONAs BUTTERFLY DANCE

 "
 Ok so how do you want us to call you now oh dance goddess!?!
Take you to every party 'cause all you wanted to do was dance 
Review: An Actors Life Story Grounds Jack &amp; With TheCotillion 
" ""No. It's fine. We still haven't agreed on a movie,"" popping a couple pieces of popcorn into my mo "
"You've got the music in you
Don't let go
You've got the music in you
One dance left
This world is gonna pull throug "
"     Nope. Free country &amp; Ill write anyway I eant , "
"CONGRATULATIONS to ALL 2019-2020 Dance Team, Boys Hip Hop &amp; Dance Choreography members ! All of your hard work paid "
"Yall hating for nothing ! I wish I was in America for this tour , it would be SOO dopeeee , music dance, crowd , h "
    Ar y'all gonna practice the dance? So it looks awesome at the airport.
" she's always interesting! her dance is amazing, she sing well her voice is so beautiful, she's good "
" Yes!! Oh man, the reaction in the theater when Peter went to pick up his date for the homecoming dan "
Our friendship was unexpected. I love how you dance. Sobrang graceful!! Keep dreaming!! Mwaps 
 What a beautiful display of life in dance.
" First, It was kokobop
Second, we got the eve dance practice
Third, henry's the eve demo is so cool and he wrote the lyric tho"
On our way to Trunk for.Divas on the Dance Floor.   To see our friend Eve Holmes and Paul C Torrigino (Miss Bea Haven) preform tonight.
honestly just wanna have a dance party with nct imagine how much fun thatd be
Another one of those evenings with the sun and fog and mountains doing a dance. 
"outfit for my little dance, super nervous but i think ill be fine "
  Same old Song &amp; Dance Romney. He is a lot like Hillary. Never got over that Presidential lose.
" I think it comes with 4 meats, salsa, toppings, and the big tortillas but they better sing and dance fo "
I miss seeing my daddy dance. 
it really takes strength to not bust out in a dance when I play homecoming in public
im at the gas station and asked these people with a party bus what they were celebrating and they brought me on to dance on the pole 
"Oh my, its my fav song off my fav album and the dance looks LIT "
 Oh no I mean shes our hometown sweetheart. Shes from Toronto so shes a Canadian treasure haha
  I STILL KNOW THE DANCE TOO OMG
Any dance flyers? I wanna take a class
"    I hope you're not waiting for the second coming of Christ, Mrs. ""I L "
"  Youre so good for us. Even though Im not an AZ-nan (yet), I do a happy dance every tim "
"Jisung  as SHINee

 actual dance legends 
 TALENT
 well respected 
 He deserves to be compared to his hyung "
NowPlaying on J-Idols Project Radio: Koi no Dance Site by Morning Musume jpop
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  dancehall dancehalllink JSO reggaemusic reggae
A picture of myself during my 8th grade dance 
 In all fairness though...I try to work the robot dance into every shift to keep it lively....you know between the med passes &amp; CPR 
"Under a starry, quiet and peaceful night sky, a group of Christians earnestly awaiting the return of the Savior s "
Spinning into the weekend like!  Get a live band to get your dance floor grooving through the link in our bio! 
i wish i knew how to dance kumbias
"  (Update: I just watched this while playing ""Sabre Dance"" in another tab on YouTube, and "
Note to self: do NOT clap at dance rehearsals tonight!!! Give your hand a chance to heal.
"If theres one thing the internet has taught me its that I love dance and the people, unlike myself, that are capable of doing it well"
Best rock pop dance music Now Achy Breaky Heart by Billy Ray Cyrus on  
"Lizzo's performance of Juice was a stunning display of artistry, featuring powerhouse vocals, choreographed dance "
I'm going to dance or go to sleep ?! Lol
"It's April 19, 2019 at 10:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
YOUTUBE FANFEST DELHI Feat. DhiruMonchik | Dance At YTFF 2019  DelhiVideo  
"Just dance to drive them bashers away! Hahaha!

BlackSaturd8WithGELANCE "
. drop strawberry milkshake beer collab   
 Me too I watch her dance videos all the time
 Thats nice that she had lots of young fans in Canada.  Im American myself.  But I genuinely like 
"What ever little bit or long time you have left on this earth, you don't know so I love that one quote that tells "
" dance for you, a classic"
"Drake has billions of streams on the 2 most used platform apple and spotify,his scorpion album has over a billion s "
Dance with the devil 
"When I grow up, I want to sing and dance and be in plays, but can I tell you something? I only want to be in pirat "
"Supergrass jamming with Yuck in a dance-punk style, produced by Gil Norton"
"Sometimes I need that romance, sometimes I need that pole dance
Sometimes I need that stripper that's gon' tell me that she don't dance!!"
OnMyWayToHell I showed up for one in purgatory how to  Dance   
" So, whatever happened to the dance winners from last year?
 
 

Pretty sure y "
Points of Authority (Zizek + Peterson Fusion Dance) AMV
"ME: I mean I won't even let myself imagine being on Drag Race. I can't dance, sew, sing, do makeup, let alone do dr "
trivia: just dance 
This Mardigras music is so much fun to dance to
" Freakshow: let me guess them

Ok

You and Music, Dance and Sin, Lyric and Snowy, Mute and Alan, me and "
"If we date, I would like to go to the park and drink some margaritas, meanwhile eat  strawberries. Then to make the "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np What's Your Sign by Des'ree on  
"Bowling is ridiculously white. Watching families bowl, eat wings, dance to YMCA, and whistle to the hustle. I LOVE IT. Whitepilled"
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino '74-'75 by The Connells on  
    You love God? Do you realize Jesus was homeless just like the people you are hating on?
the ONLY acceptable thing to listen to after a hardcore show is Italian dance group Eiffel 65s 1999 worldwide smash hit Blue (Da Ba Dee)
"  I don't mind attending weddings, but I don't dance, I hate having attention focused on me, "
At 8ish tonight. 1 hour of Good Clean Fun.... Tune In! Watch my show: Friday Night Dance Party 
"75 Years Ago, One of the Best Dance Routines Ever Was Filmed, Unrehearsed on the First Take 
NicholasBrothers "
A dance party.... during an a Apocalypse....
Celebratory ice cream after the Daddy-Daughter Dance. lovemygirls @ YoYogurt Briargate 
 And she's dancing like she never dance befooooore
JugandoAhora @ IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey_Dance  - Ideal Music 0005 
"Did you know we have a blog? This month we're asking the question, can a dance move be copyrighted?
""What can you "
  MULTIPLE PEOPLE of all ages and generations. Michael had no formal dance training yet he 
"Where has time gone ? I graduate high school next month on the 23rd, and honestly? Im really fxcking nervous. 

Bu "
 I still remember this dance im cursed
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Toca's Miracle
 - Fragma
 "
"Deshields and Gallo get the cheers, Andrus gets the dance. Everyone else gets awkward silence. They get a hit, they are cheering. Astros"
 Dont know who the other inspiring actor is.  But Im sure they were pretty good too.
"also using the ""feeling ethnic "" joke is NOT funny. like can y'all think of something else, CAN Y'ALL THINK OF SOM "
"Need a calming moment? Don't miss my latest ""Moment of Zen"" video vignette... MOMENT OF ZEN: Blue Heron Seeks Dance "
"RIIIING RIIIING RIIIING!!!
*throws pomodoro timer out the window*

and now five minutes of dance party 

that's enough, back to work"
im just tryna dance with  all the time. forever.
 Sweet ! Just had a mini dance party while unloading the dishwasher.  sexySaturdaynight
The kitchen dance party might well be the very best dance party of all. 
" thank you, for liking my tweet, have a great day, this lindy hop what dance is that, since my name "
" Yes, I love watching his dance performances!"
Shax2019 whos up for venturing to a local brewery tomorrow? Pref after 2-3 bit before the dance? Looking for craftbeer folks
"Delighted to announce Ive been kicked out of Popworld for the 3rd time in a row, the crime... standing on the danc "
" ~ Im a super good dancer, so Ill make sure to dance for you if you ask!"
Always top hits music. Now playing Baby Don't Dance by Mother Mother on  
 Thats awesome that she inspired you to work in VAs and to become a gamedev.
"Negotiations between CSAS &amp; NE for merger mustve gone something like this:

CSAS: Were bringing u a nationally r "
bro i still needa get my dinner dance outfit + prom shoes but im goin out tmrrw so its cool 
" stop it right now. this is amazing, im omw to a dance and i cant cry ILY"
 He thought his lil voodoo dance around Noel was gon let him make the shot. Nope still trash
"babe im not like other white people, i dont like to do the chicken dance, i mean i will, if its like a wedding a "
" No wonder why Lesbians hate on men all the time, they gotta pole dance to get off."
Friday night. Drinking a Vive Seltzer. Watching a YouTube channel dedicated solely to traditional folk dance compet 
This is what I get when I type the year of my birth into a gif search. But everyone knows I cant dance! Whats up 
"Because our goal is to become the best dance groups in Asia, I believe that diversity helps us accomplish that.-Luna f (x)"
I just saw someone default dance at the bowling alley
"jesiz doing his dumb little dance in the misfits promo video

me: "
 that's actually how i would dance to it
 Caucasian dance? Or Russian?
Lmao what is he supposed to do dance??? 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Fernando by ABBA on  
SAVE THE DATE!!! 04/26: D.C.'s best Throwback Hip-Hop /R&amp;B Dance party Returns! The  [  
" ""kamu tuh kalo ngedance aneh, ga cocok""
then i prove them i still dancing with the way i am, yes i am w "
PLS WATCH MY SISTER AND BEST FRIENDS DANCE COVER TO TXTS CROWN  
Darryl D'Bonneau - A Better Way (83 West Club Mix)  TheBlast  Dance
"    Here he is Field dancing doing the 'Twisted Steel and Sex Appeal"" d "
Happy Good Friday! The Veggietales break into my house every night and force me to slow dance with each of them individually.
groot got some dance 
iconic as the dance with canes 
dont ask me to dance if we aint gonna 2 step
 Oh dance class was helpful u good 
A steak dance filet with baked potato salad and an adult beverage from Canada. Perfect way to finish off a good Fri 
"  Michael Jackson also has also made iconic signature dance moves, he made a blueprint for "
 I would do anything for you to dance on my grave
" JHOPE CUTE
JHOPE SMILE
JHOPE DANCE
JHOPE SUNSHINE
JHOPE HANDSOME"
"Hi, my name is Darcy and I am an adorable Ducorps cockatoo who loves to dance. I was named after the ballerina and "
NowPlaying IndieONEGlobalRadioDanceParty Sergey_Dance  - Ideal Music 0005  
"I love your dance and how your energy is contagious, you are my sunshine, hoseok your smile brighten my day  "
 Where he treats the pitch like a dance floor  lol
Can't u believe when Boy with Luv started playing and my body started to move too! I mean the moves are quite easy( 
      Awesome! And here's an articl 
 Don't know if I'm late or early to the game lol. Its 3.10am here I've got my cuppa and can dance witho 
 Due to contract stipulations Jesus cannot fight below his weight class. He as accepted a dance batt 
Let's go baby and dance now I Love Music (Dim's Dancefloor Touch Up) by The O'Jays on 
"[ 190419 ]

1THE9 - Spotlight ( 1theK Dance Cover Contest ) ( Fancam Jinsung ver. )

 "
"31. genghis khan miike snow
32. cant dance i wanna learn tho...i've been told i have a nice singing voice but testosterone killed that Lol"
Will report back whether he knows the dance
 Shes the reason I wanted To work with VAs. Shes a huge reason why I became a gamedev. The other r 
"Idc if you celebrate 4/20 or what your plans are tomorrow, come to sandbox at 4:20. Were gonna have a dance off wi "
My mom just watched the dance of dragons for the first time and shes hype lol.
"Women Sexy Dance On Weeding | Weeding Dance | Weeding Songs 
     "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Your Love by Lime on  
 Thats awesome I remember when hubs would take the girls to the father/daughter dance
ok but are yall really sisters if yall dont have a dance together 
"All the boys who the dance floor didn't love
And all the girls whose lips couldn't move fast enough
Sing, until your lungs give out"
" Dance: I want to hear them

Lyric: that's a lot 

Music: ......wow"
"Join us for the 14th Annual Dance of the Spring Moon Lumbee Powwow! May 3-5, 2019 at the Lumbee Tribe Cultural Cent "
 I've fallen off of dance pods because of fireball
"Dance is like wine; it matures with every performance.  Alarmel Valli

Photo: Annie Leibovitz "
Much love to anybody fucking with the new song for real. It was one of those moments where the second I laid it dow 
SAVE THE DATE!!! 04/26: D.C.'s best Throwback Hip-Hop /R&amp;B Dance party Returns! The  [  
"The Oscars Shallow (Live) Lady Gaga  Bradley Cooper  - 
music love  rap dj "
not even an hour into the reception (prior to dinner being served) and some of my aunts and uncles in their fifties 
JEFFERE STAR WAS IN SEXTING BY BLOOD ON THE DANCE FLOOR? REAL;LY? FUCKING REALLY?
 He needs a blowfish to dance with....
Let me start practicing my dance moves rn 
"Happy Passover and Happy Easter to our families who celebrate this weekend! 
.
.
.
.
.
dancestudio dance "
"Lynn give this a bit of time, for all to absorb, consider  the right path on which to proceed. Lets see what the l "
"Join us at La MaMa Moves! Dance Festival on 5/23-24 for the world premiere of ""Calling, a dance with faith"" by Jesc "
 She was every 1990-2000 Canadian kids hero  She played my fave girl on my fave show. She liked my fanart 
Attempting to ballroom dance 
I jus wanna dress up N dance w/ a sweet boy under a big weeping willow tree as the sun is setting to some Billie Holiday
I cant believe in college I knew the Single Ladies dance.
 My knees have been cracking since I was ten. 13 years of dance messed them up. I freaked out my mom re 
"Im gonna need a rain check on that dance.


CaptainAmericaCATFA
MCURewatch"
"[(VISIT KOREA YEAR, 2014 K-POP COVER DANCE FESTIVAL)A pink () - Good Morning Baby+BuBiBu by AWhite]"
Can we make this the dance of 2019 plz??  I can dig it 
Best rock pop dance music Now You Should Be Dancing by Bee Gees on  
   Hopefully we see that dance pretty soon 
is it just me but kpop random dance challenges in public are by far the most embarrassing thing a person could post on youtube
do a little dance make a little love
Thankful my cousin bought this baby girl into my life. Shes a riot. A tough ass baby girl. My dance partna. My fig 
Getting things started with a little line dance. PartyWitDJSha @ Amici Clemson 
I wanna dance hall 
"Bonus:  iconic dance moves, the music is somehow getitng catchier as you listen to it more"
I'm having a one-woman dance party tonight!! WHOO!! 
Ive always felt this way. Todo los chulos with dance skills estan aya  
"Whats happening? Not entirely sure, but I provoked it by wanting to dance? "
 Ian got up on stage and began to dance to the music. He swayed his hips as men threw money at him a 
I loved African dance growing up 
" I always think this too, and then I get sad that I know it's a Fortnite dance"
With swagger because I knew their dance I used to stop myself kneel skidding onto the dance floor ivwas tgat confident
So when do we expect to see that dance  
     Please come back when you can type in English. Sp 
Now playing Freedom Jazz Dance by Eddie Harris!
"Sick of not having any dance classes to go to in Valsosta? 
Well come dance all day!!!! 
I'm teaching advance Hip-H "
SAVE THE DATE!!! 04/26: D.C.'s best Throwback Hip-Hop /R&amp;B Dance party Returns! The  [  
My fourth Drill Team Show.  Kids enjoying the Arts through dance and music. GISD and Culture proud at GarlandUSA 
Watch Shaq Dance To Thotiana In The NBA On TNT Green Room - UPROXX 
"/wts/ album lets shut up and dance sealed
isi 10 postcard + photobook + cd
"
 This child has a whole choreographed dance routine 
Irony (n): I'm now the middle aged woman that 21 year-old me made fun of for shaking it up on the dance floor
" superb sister ur acting , oviya and nikki thambodi u guys really rocked especially when kaali ghost ente "
 But thats nice that she got you interested in voice acting!
"  IF they really want to 'protect the earth' Go and Sing in a 

FRACKING FIELD

Dance around t "
I can still run all my lines and do every single dance step in Beauty and the Beast. How I miss being Belle :((
"Me: ""im going to a  concert in colorado next month, (May 30th)""
Dreamin: ""Battle Royale?""
Dreamin: "" w "
You were a heartache on the dance floor.
"Pretty Hate Machine - Nine Inch Nails: There are the ones you want to like but cant, and then are the ones you don "
"How many angels can dance on the head of a pin, while the world burns?
This guy should be ashamed of himself. What "
WALK THE MOON - Shut Up and Dance
  HAHAHA that makes me wanna dance
"I knew I was pansexual when I hit puberty, though I didn't know the word for ""I THINK EVERYONE'S BEAUTIFUL!"" But my "
 I really want the iconic skin and dance I've wanted it since it came out 
I need to learn the line dance at the end of Before I Let Go ahead of cookout szn. It sounds a little busy so i n 
 Her voice was perfect for Mini Moon.  Ive heard that she was on a hostess on a kids tv block unti 
  I hope they can atleast showcase a BBHMM or 16 shots dance number 
Michael Jackson - Ghost HD  Michael Jackson's Ghost From His In Blood On The Dance Floor Album A Halloween Special
The dance floor is bumping and the music is HOT!  in the DJ Booth and a view of the dance floor at Sound 
" a girl i bought the lets shut up and dance postcards off of was selling a bunch of rookies cards,,, i k "
Groner K-8 staff sure can dance!! 
"  Ha! This desperately needs music. Maybe Khatchaturian's ""Sabre Dance."""
I just realized how much these school dance shows suck I want my $20 back IDC
"when the feeling is right u just smile and dance 
brand new video from Dezignation ft "
Now playing Quimbara by Celia Cruz music best hits rock pop dance on  
the armysarebrokenhearted tag better be about how we didnt get the halloween dance practice
Let's go baby and dance now Get It On Tonite by Montell Jordan on  
"Im a Shite dancer I have no rhythm and was buggerd when madonna came  as everone else could,  I was in the kitchen "
I love her shady ass comments and smart wit. When the contractor we hired yesterday tried to scam me she told him  
did a guy rly try to stick his finger up my bum on the club dance floor
Dance Floor Anthem | Good Charlotte | Good Morning Revival
"Last week,  Dance Representative Ashley Newman visited our dance and theater classes! In our Juilli "
"VIDEOART - APRIL 24 
art you can dance too
Beats by me  
30min orginal music set by 
DJ Funktion 
Party "
" Holds up the bowl of popcorn, ""I brought your movie snacks, dancing queen.""

Tilts head, ""You can "
" Help to clear Hoseok's searches 

Hoseok  is Beautiful 
Hoseok is Cute
Hoseok is Handsome
Hoseok is "
their 11 year old daughters need a whole ass dance floor apparently
No dance floor in the world is as lit as the solo dance party Im having at home watching Beyonces Homecoming
Lets dance the night away
I learned how to dance regatn from my dad and bachata from my mom and I think thats all you need to know about me
"Going live now with some Just Dance! 

twitch MyHeroAcademia PXGaming 

 "
Dance declines 'equal time' offer 
 Cant even get a rhythm going to dance to it. And I personally cant stand when songs dont rhyme. This a 
 happy dance 
Ill be 40 in less than two months. I won a dance competition tonight. Thats all I need to say.
 lmao hes doing that korean cheerleading dance 
just watched a man give his gf an entire lap dance to gorgon city . what is coachella
High School Musical 2 | All for One Music Video | Disney Channel UK  via  me and my 
 I was gonna describe it better and then I realised I was describing something really similar to dance for you 
Actual footage of me trying to learn the thriller dance  
We support to Riley Children Hospital and We are Harrison Raiders love Dance Marathon.   
Bride dances with her terminally ill father at wedding after fears he wouldn't be able to attend 
*rattles* I'm going to fucking dance
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: All I Wanna Do by Sheryl Crow on  
 FHALBSOANS IM DEAD ALREADY
I wonder if it'd be worth it to give someone the Dance skill
these dudes tryna dance taeil come show em up
 Lol same. Its distracting because I wanna dance so bad
" This what kids do when their aunt asks them to dance at the cookout, dont try Bey."
 you can tap dance in my schools talent show 
  Hence me dance bout it. A help me a cry fah silently 
"Bands a make her dance, Bands a make her dance. Red bottoms a make her fuck you broke niggas dont stand a chance"
"When you see her dance, you see God."
"i am THE master of house, dance music"
 Thats her natural voice! Shes super sweet Im so glad I got to meet her. She was a hostess on our 
The wedding party moves on the dance floor to get this celebration going. weddingday weddingreception 
"A, dance soon! Miss u "
amber helping cyrus with his dancing  poor baby gay cant dance 
Please Like and Share po. Fruitas Shake Dance Craze Challenge muna tayo with Idol  Pls. Watch my own ver 
Would you dance with me?
cant wait for their performance with halsey im excited to see her dance with them xjdjdjd
 click that link  back to love dance vid
I shoot 3's - raw nigga - game day treat it like the red carpet - magic lamp- make a wish - I might just grant- bab 
 used to be ok just dance fucking shit up to that song
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : ONE DIRTY APE-BROTHERS GRIM-WE SPEAK TECHNO-FEB by One Dirty Ape Listen again 
NowPlaying Why Don't We Just Dance by Josh Turner 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Hold On by James Dukes on 
"we just wanna make the world dance, forget about the price tag~~~"
Pictured: Kendall tearing it up on the dance floor yet again invitemetoyourwedding @ Aquarium of the Pacific 
Love a girl that can dance bro  from straight ass shakin in ya face to dirty whinin on you  turn up on me dennnnn
"To our Composers, Clients, and Friends around the world for whom Passover begins this evening, we wish you "
 ;  ; that makes my heart dance 
"Happy dance!!! The weekend is here! Playing some  followed with some overwatch, come hang out! &lt;3 "
"This my new dance move, I just don't know what to call it"
" TGIF Tune In and kick your weekend off with your lady DJ,  9p-Midnight on CLUBMIX945 Stream LIVE on "
     The one that is playing at that moment. Let's not 
 Omfg AMAZING AHTISBFOSBDOSBDODBF I'M DYING!!
  Practice! Practice and I bet BANGTANTV will upload this practice maybe a month same for o 
"Headline:  Estate agent makes INSANELY STEAMY video to help sell luxury home

What?  There's a house for sale??  I "
 *voiced
"For one night, I want to fly to the moon  with my lover;  dance &amp; laugh with them all night long; I want to get w "
   Charles Dance and Conleth Hill would be my top two if I made a list.
"wouldnt want to dance the night away with anyone else 
prom2k19 "
"31. TiO by zayn
32. i used to dance and i can sing a little"
" *felt cute, might dance later idk"" lol"
" not boring, you can dance to it even though you hate it??? (im expecting a phenomenal staging btw)"
7/ We have to face the music and dance.  The dance is ImpeachmentHearingsNOW to begin to repair the damage done an 
 Aww nice!  The second voice of Sailor Chibi/Mini Moon!  She actually sounded like a kid when she v 
"Quiero bailar con vos
The last dance of the world  

eternamente agradecida por darme esta oportunidad hpmakawa19_ "
"On with the dance!let joy be unconfined,No sleep till morn,when Youth and Pleasure meet,To chase the glowing hours with flying feet."
 Then she said that a grandma can dance better than Nct so I was like hahahahah we arent gonna try to teach them to her again
" ""He was pretty well known. He fucked one of his professors."" Ian smiles at him before making himsel "
"Exodus. 
Also,
Square Dance. 
North Oakland Square Dance
mysederistmrwsodosidotoday"
"Thanks so much to my compadre  for making this awesome dance coroe of my latest track ""Mueve tu Nalga"" ( "
I cant dance with you while in the house by our selves having fun then Im not interested 
I just want to go out and dance every Friday night can someone be my friend
"To our Composers, Clients, and Friends around the world for whom Passover begins this evening, we wish you "
boy with luv puts me on full energy mode like its 4AM but i just want to dance happily nonstop
" Very cool! My mum used to be a guitar teacher and my brother can play it by ear.
I sing, dance, I love "
Yo can you imagine what it wouldve been like if social media was around when you &amp;your play cousins made up dance 
" hey Mike I'm sending this invitation to you for your old friend Steve Hill, we're honoring Billy with "
It's always fun to dance around Magic Kingdom during the Happily Ever After (theme) song
Oh wow. The Lab won World Of Dance S2 last year and they are one of the best dance crew I've seen  They are young 
 yo Im in dance party withdrawal this week
Just give me one chance to dance behind Beyonc and I promise Im going off
 A bully and a con man like Trump will never willingly allow attention to drift from his malignant song and dance.
Let's go baby and dance now Next To Me by Emeli Sand on  
     I'm not dancing with you.  I only 
 Gonna miss seeing all your coworkers dance 
"I am a mix between Ashley and Christina when I dance 
doubleshotatlove"
BRAND NEW DANCE VIDEO Sonic the Hedgehog 4 Episode II OST - Sky Fortress Zone Act 3 DANCE VIDEO 
 That's it! You can all take a deep breath and dance. The Holly Grail of all tweets has just been r 
"I went to my first aerial dance class. For once I thought to take a video, but I forgot to turn around for it, so i "
Never underestimate silence. artemisravenmusic grownfolksmusiconly pop rnb dance worldwide 
"His Voice Is So Emotional That Even Simon Started To Cry!  - 
music love "
"I dont take too well to non black people, Im not familiar with telling me to dance when Im out. 
In my head I he "
 *for a dance performance.
" Oh, kiss me beneath the milky twilight
Lead me out on the moonlit floor
Lift your open hand
Strike up the "
" Its ok, if there is any trouble on the streets the police can just skateboard in and dance with the troublemakers"
"Romney's comments regularly invite a comparison to Trump. I'm surprised Romney does this, because he does not compa "
Sick of Seeing Nayun Dance Cover of Dalla Dalla on my TL 
i have dance practices in 7 hours...Okay 
Sonic the Hedgehog 4 Episode II OST - Sky Fortress Zone Act 3 DANCE VIDEO  via 
Im pretty sure part of the reason it takes me months to watch new shows is because I get distracted two episodes i 
Idk if I dance like no one is watching but I certainly eat like no one is watching
SOMEONE COME DANCE WITH ME IM BORED
Enjoyed these moments with my son last night @ the Fortnite Battle Royale Dance Party!! mommyandsontime 
"I just wanna go out one day and just vibe man! Drink, Dance, &amp; have a good time!"
"I never really knew that she could dance like this,
She makes a man wanna speak spanish"
Dance pictures  
 I don't even know wtf is happening hahahaha I just saw this photo and say it was a game and answered. 
"Wear your bonnet this Sunday to show off and hopefully win a prize! Games, activities, bands, a dance competition, "
 have you heard of the band Dance Gavin Dance?
"""One day, in Spring of 2000, while looking for yet another yoga book I happened upon ""Yoga: The Spirit and Practice "
"This mornings improv to my fav band the Birthday Party 
NICK the Stripper nickcaveofficial 
Like my videos? "
"He's killing it,   in the DJ Booth and a view of the dance floor at Soundcheck for the  ann "
She's a part of Soshi dance trio.
 Yes! Sugar Lynn Beard is her preferred name
If You Ever Danced Bachata With Me Or  Witness Me Dance You Know I Fuck Shit Up.
good morning to dance teacher hoseokie only 
"dance with me, make me sway "
"Brb, I'm transporting. The dance from TheOA really does the trick when you can't be bothered at work. "
 I just watched when Robert and Amy were married..the final dance scene still makes me tear up! All 
yall remember when twice was in switzerland and dance to knock knock in public
 that balloon thing dance better then her this is sad 
Going into the weekend wishing we could all look this smooth on the dance floor. 
"the dance was........boring, so i dipped and went to the bar lmao"
  Agreed. Do it. Pelosi could schedule a vote on Articles of Impeachment tomorrow. Lets d 
/does the late-night baseball dance
" May have been hurt, last chance to dance Go FlamesGo "
Aww Michelle bless that lil skinny woman heart she KNOW she cant dance 
       I would  have ju 
 OKAY THE DANCE CREW THE LAB THAT SHES IN WON WORLD OF DANCE LAST SEASON THEY ARE AMAZING SHE IS AMAZING
me dancing to this song on just dance cause im an only child 
"Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music


Ali..."
I just did the whole dance to thriller with my nephew  Im def bout to have fun tonight.
   Yeah Ant kill it on the dance floor fr fr
My next Just Dance playlist challenge: FAHC song list. Now listen. I know it seems hard but I got this. Just need t 
 Who is that?  Stephanie Beard?  (The Sugar Baby.)
"""I dance to the heavens.
I stomp on the earth.
When the moon rises,
the sun sets, 
and the planet turns around,
I l "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : I Found You
 - Benny Blanco &amp; Calvin Harris
 "
freeevent Tonight Goodbye Monday's rocking the Cauliflower Hotel on Saturday 20th April 9.30pm. Great music from t 
 My personal favourite will always be a very clean cut looking guy at least 10 years older than anyo 
"I do insist, just come up and dance. 
Nowplaying: Tiesto - Sensorica Vs Jin Key - Only One (Rave Mix)  va "
I Numbered Dance She Death
And the judges going all extremely gaga over it was so exaggerated and just...too much. Give her three times the ru 
"This Saturday at 10am ET on DC Radio 96.3HD4 and   ""Inside The MFL"" hosts Kelsey Nicole Nels "
wait tyga was at gun point and was forced to dance to rack city a while ago?
 What is the name of the song that plays when you use the smug dance emote?
Tonight fal has given me the best shittest night where else could you pay 3 to dance w 5 other people on a platfor 
I won 2 achievements in Just Dance 2015 for 26 TrueAchievement pts 
"Eternal - Stay (1990)
 
 RnB Dance "
"Well Im sure they dance because they love it, but on tours they really do their twin thing and highlight Bey"
I'm ready for you and your friends to come sing!  attending Karaoke at The Loft Dance Club at The Loft Dance Club 
Girls wey dey rush dance always dey alert us with their wigs on the floor... madam I dey help you hol am 
"Ive been a dancer since I was 6 years old, and I quit when I was 18  I love dancing so much, favorite thing to do "
" The downside of being a dance instructor is having to hold all the ladies in my arms, but then again, "
"Just to clarify, he called this the triple woah. My dad is on some next level dance moves, yall.  "
fu*k you and the chips. ill take a dollar dance and capitalism  
I miss taking African dance classes. I might start back doing that
 Smooth transition from dance to game
Now Playing: Drake f. Kyla &amp; Wizkid - One Dance (Radio Edit) on  GetLive  GetLiveMediaNetwork
Surviving tonight thus far on 90s dance music and anime themes from the late 80s/90s/early 2000s... I work most nig 
 Thats awesome that you got to meet her!
can bighit just make a bts just dance game already  
I really love Les Twins. They were the only males apart of Beyoncs show for two whole tours (I believe it was 2). 
Like I got this flashback of their stages and dance practice and I remember all the moves and expressions and my he 
the best thing to do at a weird dance is to judge who is best at the cha cha slide with your friends... try it and see my frens
 Thank you  ahhh Im so happy
Best rock pop dance music Now Flashdance...What A Feeling by Irene Cara on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby No Money by Galantis on  
beyonc really remix a bop and then had the nerve to give us a new fuckin line dance at the end 
true life: I can't stop watching k-pop dance covers on youtube
"20190420
'We moved with the water
The tumble and sway
The slow dance gets harder
As level shorelines fade'
 "
why do we not have a cool dance like this? lmk 
 Dance of the Seven Grimy Man Veils is really more their collective look...
 My happy dance.... 
"I'll show you, and only you, a special dance of mine. I put a lot of sweat and tears into this one. I hope you like it."
I love being home alone so I can put Beyonc on shuffle &amp; dance around the house w| no interruptions. 
"He is not the Golden Hyung for nuffink.

Jhope's vocals is just as good as his rap &amp; dance.

We love a versatile ma "
seeing a scene where a school shooting is stopped through the power of fucking... interpretive dance brings my bloo 
 I helped 2 groups of 8th graders prepare for dance performance in Japan and they crushed it!
 Me too ! I was just watching it and doing the dance routines .
"""I'll keep them because they stand for the love you gave to me""
-Wedding Dance-"
"Added ""Reconcile - TR473"" by Mason Maynard to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify "
You ever just have a dance party in your room by yourself? The best
"Added ""Give It Up - TR473"" by Kideko to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify "
"Announcing the premiere of ""Calling: a dance with faith"" by Jesca Prudencio and  at Moves! Dance Fest "
"HENYANG AU
YangYang is a street dancer and Hendery is a classical dancer.
They meet at a local dance competition a "
"For my Canadian / Beyblade G-Revolution / Sailor Moon fans 

I got to meet my hero today 

Excluding my unflatteri "
"Celebrity Dance Off's first ""trio"" takes the trophy - thanks Vanessa Higgins-Nogareda for a dazzling performance! "
Took me almost three years but I finished A Feast for Crows. Going by how long it takes me to read these books I sh 
Allow me to introduce my new skin and dance combo I call it galaxystick 
" *He continues to hum as he guides her through the steps--it's not a real waltz without music, after all. "
  Y'all gotta make a bet. The person who gets the most right wins. The loser has to wear a 
" Dance: Lol

Lyric: I kinda curious to know who they are for now

Music: Dude you probably dont want to know"
 Noo with his dance moves you dumbass
"Hello - Walk off the Earth + Myles &amp; Isaac (Tap Dance Cover)  via 
watch this group; they are awesome."
You know what I find shit? I find that right after easter Monday we got a dance test like who the fuck would make a 
I'd love to dance at the Golden Bee with  while  sings 
james sp  TRULY THE LOML !!!!! i would do Anything for him !!!!!!!! yes he has six lines in the entire show but ki 
"I wanna go to a cool white ppl club and dance to
 OONTS OONTS OONTS"
Dance floor or fieldthis little Nugget is intense. Learning. Growing. Workin hard. 
dance king 
 Deadly Dolly Dance
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy   
While Im waiting for my friends Im having uni a drink and listening to music and I like to think that I dance lik 
"Speechless,Dance for you and Rocket are the holy trinity of sensual songs "
  Unpopular Opinion: Taylor Swift can't dance
Do my dance  
"For context, my family has a thing where once holiday meals are over, we always put on music and those who can danc "
"    i honestly suck at anything that isn't rhythm heaven, rhythm doc "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Shine On Ruby Mountain by Kenny Rogers on  
Part of me wants to be a golden delight next year. Part of me wants to let dance go
" The second concert I attended (the first was the Mothers) was MO, and ""Dance of Maya"" was, er, transcend "
      Just fB 
Dance dance is so good but I keep singing it like its country for some reason
Me trying to sing and dance after watching Homecoming 
"Oh, Francis,
Thank you for writing always easy to understand the polite English and Japanese sentence to comment. "
" yup, a GREAT LEADER and GOOD dancer  remember when jyp choose him as the best dancer during win? hopefull "
Weekends captured!  Get a live band to make your dance floor picture perfect through the link in our bio! 
" have a spa day 
 watch the stars 
 go to the zoo
 go fishing 
 try a new recipe
 go to an arcade
 go bowlin "
Here is a great hip hop dance move video with Sloane and Katrina.  Check it out on our sister channel!  Thank you f 
"""Ayyy Daddyyy""  this is absolutely amazing to sing and dance to!! Which, of course, is the only time I can get bab "
A quick clip of the dance floor for DJ  at Soundcheck for the  annual weekend charity event 
 ASHLEY BETTER DANCE! SECURING THE 12TH YEAR WITH BEY
"Tonight EASTER Saturday Long-weekend 
Dovy Dovy presents (Afro 1 Pot) 
with Live performance/Afrobeat/reggae dance "
"Music
Cage The Elephant  Dance Dance (Audio)


Ads: 
Album - ""Social Cues""
Sony Portable Bl "
I got a new rebill on my profile  (Happy Dance!) 
"Karrnnel Sawitsky, a Juno award winning artist from Toronto, ON visited GFK  along with Michele Amy , Pierre Tenant "
 Don't forget that an epic epic employee actually had to do this in real life to create this dance
Our biggest fans this week:    Thank you! via  
i need to learn this dance already 
One dance...and suddenly I'm an anchovy
Many other reason to dance for black womens accomplishments but wow I feel this is powerful especially for young p 
Me and Mando are taking shots and having a Livingston dance party! 
My Mexican ass dont know the difference between Mexican music or know how to dance 
"R+N 1 // All night long
vallartaphotographer cabophotographer silhouette eawedphoto fearlessphotographers "
 What the name is that dance???
"Minhyuk. Weekly idol, girl group dance, him dancing to touch my body, hosts stopping him, he froze and had this one "
"Seeing BTS on SNL:

Mrs: Looks like a group of boys at a middle school dance doing Zumba. I bet they practiced this "
NowPlaying I Wanna Dance by Whitney Houston on UrbanRadio Old School R&amp;B 
I'm so impressed I could cry. Thank you very much for your best dance!
" i couldnt bc i was in dance class :(( but i hope you enjoy, bub!!"
and he likes coffee and blueberries and kimchi stew and tonkatsu. and he has a black belt in taekwondo and he studi 
"I did a thing. It was a dance thing and I had fun. But I am now tired. Thanks for dancing with meeee  
I love you, TabiChat!!"
MAY 17: MemberNightsattheCasa presents Flashback Friday. Get groovy when the DJ spins hits of the 1960s &amp; 70s! Not 
The Macarena is the sexiest dance I know
"I always get goosebumps when people dance   like wow , you really can do that and I can't "
L.O.L.A - New Dance -----&gt; Click link 2 listen 
An Introduction to Lion Dance in Singapore  
"After watching this, I have decided to put my son in dance class. If he doesnt dance like this after I am getting "
Only an OG could fuck a stripper for free... am getting this lap dance for  free 
Now Playing : L.O.L.A - New Dance -----&gt; Click link 2 listen (
"It's gonna be a dance party!!!! Live DJ's, DJ Dreamteam playing the latest songs, games, refreshments and fun. Prof "
Now Playing : L.O.L.A - New Dance -----&gt; Click link 2 listen (
 aw yeah *dance*
Photographer Jen Marino talks about why she uses Rear Curtain Sync for her flash photography. This is something I h 
"Dance or Die 
What most people dont realize is that everyone changes their memories every time they re "
"Sinful Sisters Productions presents an evening of sci-fi inspired belly dance. Grab your towel, don't panic, and en "
"Boa is the reason she wanted to also studied singing and dance, leaving the Art"
Baby Groot briefly transforms the Galaxy (and the Marvel action machine) into one big dance floor 
An Introduction to Lion Dance in Singapore 
"For me it's in couple church yards, some random person's porch and on numerous roadsides...notable mention, getting "
"Happy Easter



easter sms owner marketing advertising follow like connect festival "
Photographer  Jen Marino talks about why she uses Rear Curtain Sync for her flash photography. This is something I 
"Check out ""Energetic Dance Action - minus lead melody"" - background music for videos &amp; media - "
Tried to dance in the shower and nearly busted my fucking skull open. Guess thats god saying i deserve to be miserable
"Thanks to our incredible partners, Auckland WheelStarz, Touch Compass Dance Trust and Extreme Edge Rock Climbing Pa "
Dance class was lit tonight. I am super tired though.
"If and when I do get married, I'll have EVERY SINGLE PERSON weeping at my wedding when I have that first married dance. W E E P I N G"
Today's Dance YouTube Video Avicii's SOS (feat. Aloe Blacc) 
"Hula Ku'i Performance by Mu'Olaulani will be shown at WaianaeLibrary on April 27, 2:00pm-2:45pm.  

Muolaulani is "
 Im never going to dance again......
hope I can dance good :[
music make her dance and money make her smile
Alexa do the true heart emote dance
I'm really just wanna dance to Aretha Franklin songs.
"Come and see 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Dancing King Livehouse in 20!!!!  
 "
i dont know how to tap dance but i am constantly doing it in my head
"JSJSJS I SAW SOMEONE SAY SOPE R POINTING AT EACH OTHER AT THE ""COME BE MY TEACHER"" PART CUZ JHOPE TAUGHT YOONGI DAN "
Now playing Ashes To Ashes by David Bowie music best hits rock pop dance on  
"  me at mime school preforming an interpretive dance of 9/11
 "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Brand New Day by Sting on  
my favorite thing to do during a bigbang song is sing and dance along and stay completely silent and fake vomiting 
Midland - Mr. Lonely Line Dance  
 sorry I don't have spandex on doing that dance 
City Councillor Ken Johnston becomes temporary Mayor of the Dance Floor  
The First Dance. 
Some times I just want  somebody  who can sing and dance the same songs I hear.  That would make me really happy.
Ok so whos leading us in the line dance at the end of Beyoncs cover of Before I Let Go?
Am I the only one uncomfortable seeing childish gambino Dance? Lol 
I dont dance at clubs but whenever im in a gig I got the moves 
" I am hoping for one thing on May 10th. Stormy can come, dance and entertain without idiots thinking "
"Dig Lounge this week:
Kendra Daniel's Band
April 19 and 20
8pm to 1am
diglounge kendradanielsband dance "
"Tono Hikaru:


La-( *   *) 

Chikatto Chika Chika

KaguyasamaLoveIsWar SecretaryChika ShukiShuki "
"Imagined wangxian, three sworn brothers, three juniors, xicheng dance Gee by GG. And i can't stop laughing. I CANNOT"
 maybe!!! ill be with my mom and brother so well have to see but i wanna dance with you
you can dance you can jive having the time of your life ooooooooh
Breakdance Battle  Chelles Battle Pro 2014  Final 
 I need this dance cover to happen
jaeyoon actually DID dance to baseline hehe
 My Papa talks to me from heaven too. The first time I heard what ended up being my first dance song 
 Sangamam. Would have chose a lead actor and actress who can dance better. It was Manivannans' best perf 
      Dance_always is a fake maga acct
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Baila Rumbera &amp;40;Radio Edit&amp;41;
 - Acapulco Feat. Sandro Peres
 "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Right Hand by Drake on  
"

Join Haley and I as we dine at Epcot's Garden Grill with Mickey, Chip, Pluto, and Dale in "
When you have a dress rehearsal in your new dance costume and youre twinning with your bestie  4thgradebabes 
Its almost that time for me to take the stage and play some TECHNO! Ive got a whole lot of music ready for you Sa 
must suck to not know how to dance 
". day 109 .
     - i fell asleep last night TAT you did a shoot with maps??? do you know how handsome you a "
See our satellite booth at IFF Toronto FanFest main events today and tomorrow for all your glowing needs! Concert l 
"I had no intentions of leading Karen on, but when the Ipod of awesome plays this,and you have someone to hold close "
"Me:
""Nah I'm not gonna be a sore winner I'll pick a nice comment.""

My Mii:
*showboat dance* ""gOoD gAmE lOsErS"" "
Im actually glad I was dressed to DANCE for prom even though I get bitter when I see these HS girls in their full- 
"bop it, but with dance moves 

*ready! woah it* 

|      |
 \         /
 ___| |_____
/      __/
\_"
"beyonce doesnt have rape accusations on her back nor does she mentally, emotionally or physically abuse her signifi "
Im in the mood to go out tonight and maybe get drunk and dance a little but theres absolutely no where for me to go here
" third episode of  dance scene featuring Robyns Ever Again. Perfect. (Also, major  vibes.)"
 just got my album wrapped.  This is my jam!  Saw you in St. Jo and you and Kelly in Archer City.  Bo 
Tonight I'm gonna dance for you
 fragrantblossoms: Dancer Evan-Burrows Fontaine. Photo by Arnold Genthe from The Book of the Dance... 
So you dumped the firm of one of the people who saved your a$$?  Genius move.  Bet the firm is dancing the happy da 
"Original EDM/House Instrumental
Youtube Edition Enjoy!

Youtube


EDM House Instrumental "
  New dance is sick!!
"JHOPE IS CUTE
JHOPE IS ADORABLE
JHOPE IS HANDSOME
JHOPE IS TALENTED
JHOPE IS PRECIOUS
JHOPE IS A DANCE KING
JHOPE I "
"NITV's Grayson takes on the Fresh Prince of Arnhem Land aka Baker Boy in an epic dance battle.

Live from "
"if you dance with the devil, then you havent got a clue, for you think you'll change the devil, but the devil changes you"
"Hey! Were starting a KPop Dance Cover Group for fans in/near Sacramento! If you plan to join us, well be posting "
" Yeah, when the Just Dance party video resurfaced I was worried this would happen"
" Here's what you do in the future.

DM me : ""Jax. Meet at *insert place* for *insert time*. They'll be "
Idyll - Dance Real Slow (Official Music Video)  via 
"Thanks April Ferguson for your Glamour, Courage, Beauty.  A movie-star performance at the 2019 Celebrity Dance Off "
JOIN MY DANCE CLUB 
"hwiyoung looking at taeyang while he dances and then them dancing the same lil dance and then hwi urging taeyang to dance 
im-"
"  real God even though it was the undead. As he smiled at Persephone, he gently tilted her back before b "
"I heard Adele is getting a divorce. Future Im in the mood for sad, snarky emo ballads me just did a little happy "
"Let's dance to Joy Division
And celebrate the irony
Everything is going wrong
But we're so happy
"
Everyone needs to know me and Lexi just absolutely ate shit on the dance floor at this party 
 Theres a certain strength in knowing your limits. When I used to dance I would dance on injuries a 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np All Star by Smash Mouth on  
"Come and see  Maria KAIF 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance girl   
 "
Its always a good time doing the Swim Spirit Dance Assembly... thanks for the invite Seniors 
 I love crying because of this dance
 went to my sisters dance recital and this came on. Your immortalized in dance now 
"Original Dance Pop Song 80's ElectricPop Remix
You Tube Edtion Enjoy!


Pop Song "
"As the handcuffs snapped across my wrist, I heard her cry, Why? Why did you do it? I lowered my head, watching th "
"Repost  (get_repost)

Love this shot by gingersolephotography from degas_dance_studio Nutcracke "
Woooooow Beyonce really made Before I Let Go twerkable. Black wedding dance floors will never be the same. 
And she bumped  all the way to her dance...KENNNNNNNY! 
  But the most underrated thing of all: The dance they do at the beginning of Keep Away
 That first dance was enough for me. Hella smooth
MaximizaTuMusica con Gloria Estefan And The Miami Sound Machine-Conga ( - Conga (Dance mix) por RadioMakroDigital
"I can fuck some shit up if we alone in a room, my lap dance gone have him going crazy "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Want To Want Me by Jason Derlo on  
"SC Idol winner, Gabbie Sproles, a senior at Smith-Cotton High School, is finding all her dancing dreams are com "
sometimes i think about how all the little girls i used to dance with are now at college parties drinking
dance is literally the biggest stress reliever for me );
" It had the largest songlist for its time, plus a ton of revivals that people wanted, and it pushed the di "
If the Homecoming intro doesnt make you wanna get up and dance for black women then idk what you are doing with your life
"Hendery  as Block B

 literally weird 
 raps 
 SO DAMN FUNNY
 probably jams daily to Shall We Dance  "
" Dance: So what now

Music: I don't know 

Lyric: ..... *shrugs*"
Nothing worse than seeing Mike Strumbly is going live on insta because you dont know if hes at a bar or an EPAL dance
" Ass so fat I need a lap dance...

Me:  AYE PLAY THAT SHIT THE FUCK BACKKKKK G "
Is there anyone outside of Alabama that does the swerve dance? 
"Nobody : 

Little Boy : 
 Whats a gun favorite dance ?
The shoot  "
" Is this even a question? Of course, it is none other than, the one and the ONLY Dance God...  it's TH "
"  ...

_

HyunA Dance to EXO's Growl

_
  
"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Samirs Theme &amp;40;Original Radio&amp;41;
 - King Amir
 "
 WoahCant wait SNUPER WeekendSecret Sangil sebin Suhyun Sangho Woosung taewoong  
let have fun laugh talk tell jokes sing dance 
"went out of my comfort zone to ask a guy I had a huge crush on to a dance. He was an enormous jerk. Later, he was r "
Now in The Shire! Really looking forward to a great dance session! 
SLOW DANCE!// Royalettes - It's Gonna Take A Miracle  via  FridayNightDanceParty
Leonard Cohen - Dance Me to the End of Love  via  Dance anyone?
no one appreciates my dance numbers like dymond 
I wanna dance on my man sexy asf  he will love me forever
MSHSL to allow boys on dance teams.
This song is playing: Milky Chance - Stolen Dance Listen: 
"Come on, we'll dance."
 Kaesang cover dance bts dong
  And it's hard to dance with a devil on your back
"YOU CAN DANCE 
YOU CAN JIVE 
HAVING THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE"
Yall in fever are predators like plz I just wanna dance to a bit of drake I dont wanna be touched
" By ""drink,"" I really mean ""go to lesbian bars to dance."" Drinking wasn't my thing. "
My husband  loves to dance this is his go to move he just doesnt like to admit it 
International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers - Los Angeles Times 
  Ive actually been to almost 100 concerts! As someone whos played more than 10 instrum 
        
Just wake up from dream that I kind of enroll the dance academy where I kind of do the paper test which the girl no 
"That concludes tonights event. With a total of five performers and many dance numbers, tonights show was a fun event for MU students."
"would you dance with me
in the rain?"
HAY DANCE PRACTICE DE COUNTDOWN Y DE BOUT YOU... Njskdnsldnjsnf
FIRST OF ALL TJ REALLY WANTED TO DANCE AND SECOND IM SCARED 
 Ill be doing that dance as soon as I get healed! Carltons got nothing on me! 
thinking about how ive never been to a party or school dance because my social life in high school was non-existen 
So i found an old CD dated back 7 years ago when i was 12 years old in 2012 about an old dance video in middle scho 
I just got back from hollywood studios and my cousin ran to me to show me he was watching one of their dance practices 
you know how there is just one song that just sends u and makes u bitter from remembering the past? well my sisters 
ok but does she actually think she can dance MOVE KSHDSBS 
"A song I love to dance too NowPlaying ""Turn Up the Music"" by Chris Brown on  "
African Dance  artbrut battiss 
Have you heard Static Shock (Dance Type) by Sara Sounds on SoundCloud? np 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Drifting Along by Jamiroquai on  
Made the mistake of getting drunk and looking at song to dance with my sister at her wedding and here I am in tears 
"If you indulge in local nightlife, you'll likely recognize Benny Sheffield A.K.A. Blueyedsoul. His nimble oscillati "
Why the hell are peeps l uploading ppls dance covers and making fun of them on twt lately. The amount of bullying t 
"Life along the yellow brick road navigating between right and wrong, is a dance. When you need it, courage shows up "
   The dance i do on fridays 
"May 31st = Wheelers Spring Dance Recital !!SAVE THE DATE!!
BalletBoy"
someone dance with me to You and I
 Well crap!  Was gonna ask ya out to dance skippy. Hope all goes well.
every time po pi po comes on i have to do the dance and sing along it's just too darn catchy!!
 that voodoo shit sounds scary  can you watch my dance videos a few times so i can get some glow up too?
a girl i hung out with for the majority of the night asked me if im a professional dancer (despite the fact i danc 
" good to see you as well! Alas I can not take credit for my bio, that was  and "
     You delirious fool! You're the one who's try 
      A couple of out of control libbies- will post next
When I was in 8th grade my dance teacher had me and three other girls do a dance to whistle with one guy who we all 
Bey is doing full dance sequences. Poppin. Steppin. Bussin it down with FULL VOCALS. FUKKKKKKKK.
She gives me life when she dance!!! Hands down a straight beast in dancing!!  
  Just under dance.  
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listenin "
"All of this is to say that there is a lot of beauty in throwing queer dance parties as an act of resistance, and as "
"More than just a party, PODO focuses on creating a community of queerdos that hold the principles of harm reduction "
"Not long after the first PODO, which by the way, was inspired by the No Pants No Problem parties, the PLUR collecti "
Tonight ima gonna dance for you 
" ""Hoping to catch some of my sweet dance moves?"" "
"3 years ago, I wore this to the first ever Pants Off Dance Off in yyj  - a no pants dance party in support of Yout "
NowPlaying Chris Larsen (CA) - What You Waiting For on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
"People enojoy the challenging game called tinikling, a traditional Philippine folk dance at the Philippine corner. "
 My dad say usually they will hire kpop fangirls cause usually kpop fangirls are easy going!!! Few y 
Making my fianc watch both High school musical 1 &amp; 2...he needs to know the importance of my childhood. Still know 
"Alright. If I dance to Homecoming once a day, I might lose 5 pounds by May. Whew, what a work out."
Can he dance though? 
SAVE THE DATE! May 7th at 6:30pm The second annual Northwood Family Folk Dance! 
"Come and see  Maria KAIF 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance girl   
 "
"Theres really no point in playing Get Me Bodied if its not the extended mix, the dance breakdown is the best part"
"What are your favorite songs recently? I need to update my playlist   Izone - Colors &amp; Violeta
Eye of the tiger - "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : So Much Love
 - Afro Bros Ft. Charly Black, Stevie Appleton
 "
      recognize this dance?  
En Ondes : You Won't Dance With Me D par April Wine  
Going down tomorrow! Doors open at 4pm. distrctarts dance @ Distrct ARTS 
 M83 - Wait (Kygo Remix) EDM Dance
I'd really love to see these 2 beautiful humans dance together again some day. My favorite duo from Season 14 . I 
I look thick when i dance 
 Im gonna have to go with dance of the sugarplum clefairy
Render visible birmingham art photography filmphotography graphicdesign constructivist construction video 
"Chapter51 
Starts With the best of Old Skool 
Right Now.The Old Skool Express Is Rollin!!! Come Get Your Dance On! "
So beautiful. I think i want to enroll my kids to traditional dance class. 
Jack frostt One Dance remix so fire
 The one and only dance machine: Eunhyuk 
i want every evidence of me dancing to baby shark at the dance party last night to be non-existent
me and  when we show up to dance 
rock pop dance classic hits now: From East to West by Voyage on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np You Get What You Give by New Radicals on  
"Darkness rules my mind
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 I'm edgy as fk"
I'm having the best dance party on Destiny 2 right now... omg.
  its the dance hymn gimmick
"If I can't dance to it, it's not my revolution.Emma Goldman"
What an opening ceremony at the sganzics well done to you all guys! Shame we didnt get to see you sing or dance D 
"Thanks to KindHeartedKitx, I maxed everything! Ty for hosting a dance off! Also, congrats to spark for also maxing "
 Good for him. Fuck work. Break those damn shackles and jet ski or paint or dance or do whatever you have 
Spontaneous Lady Gaga dance parties with women that I love are a balm for my soul
 *the music transports us to another dimension where time seems to stand still. As the music continues 
After a few shots of whiskey a writers fingers dance on the typewriter keys... 
"We could slow dance to rock music
Kiss while we do it
Talk 'til we both turn blue... "
Imma have to slide to a club so I can fuck some slow shit up for the one time. I havent given or received a quality lap dance in forever. 
"Rain delay dance party! 

NCAASoftball 
(via 
"
"If you ever lose your one only, theres always room here for the lonely, to watch your broken dreams dance in and o "
"people in Baltimore and DC are like to dance with scarfs at EDM shows.
is that a thing elsewhere?
I should get a scarf. galaxy
 "
"Oh, Will Smith! Dance break! "
"She says and I quote  I like Jhope because he dance good, wait... I like him....actually I like all of them OMGSH SHES FIVE"
 All we need to see (now/ later) are some cool dance moves
when I was 16 I promised myself that no matter what was going on Id stop and dance to the song House Party by Sam 
Otg me and baby Jae dance just alike
i just wanna move out n live w the love of my life and make them breakfast every morning and we can dance around in 
"Michael Jackson creating his circle ""Moonwalk"" Dance for the first time! part 1 "
Shall We Dance? yu_chara
Let's Dance 2019: Oliver Pocher begeistert als Britney Spears beim Boys-vs-Girls-Battle - RTL Online 
 Yes! Must be his FAV move especially the twerk he doing it in a club w jinan too before~ not complaining 
"    That wasnt 2016 and giving visuals doesnt require anything, an "
"Poetry writingcommunity

Excerpt from       |Why are you always so (black) mad? |

 Yes you there with the curls "
That was tough on the nervous system. But that was a textbook sound road game in a hostile environment to take a 3 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Freedom by Jimi Hendrix on  
Im just trying to go dance and everyone is busy 
Why Presstitute media getting free Chicken tandoori will raise any questions on such dance? 
"The true talent of a Deejay, its reading the room and playing exactly that record as bodies dance to the beat an "
  aye long as we all having a good time dance onnn
Youth In Need Educators Learn Pause Dance To Share With Families -  via 
" From now on, don't listen.  It's not for you.  Dance outside.  You will not be missed."
 i cant dance 
 Please do a dance practice video for dionysus
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Tsunami by DVBBS &amp; Borgeous on  
"did i mention sienna lalau is like..,,,18 and already such a legend in the dance world like. if yall watch her vids "
  I say let this be a celebration of life. Not a protest. Lets let them know we are qu 
"Now Playing, Lou Reed  Kill Your Sons from Sally Can't Dance music Rock"
"wHO SAID JAE CANT DANCE 

 "
"FRIDAY NIGHT 

 NOW OPEN, COME JOIN US TONIGHT  WE HAVE THE SEXIEST GIRLS 
IN THE 805 

ROLL CALL:

GOLDIE
RO "
" Ya its a busking dance group, you should look them up on YouTube tbeh are really good they cover a lot of groups"
"2019 Easter Weekend Fire Dance  @ Woodlawn Lake, San Antonio "
I thought Jung Ho was going to dance a jig
" Face it, it is HARD to win the big dance!!!"
This the nigga who do that Lil knee dance shit? 
"  Why can't imfact just get treated with more respect, se has a 4K camera no? I swear they've "
 He's smashing  it with his interpretive dance piece 
"  She is double mouth snake, she plays on the front foot on Police atrocities on Naxals but On S "
"     OMG!! I absolutely loved them on World of dance, supe "
WHEN YOURE HOME ALONE IN THE MOOD I KNOW YOU WANNA MOVE I KNOW YOU WANNA DANCE I KNOW YOU GETTIN READY TOOOO TAKE T 
"Rabah vs Alesya  House Battle at House Dance Forever 2015 /  
house dance battle girl dancer cool judge demo"
" ""the upcoming big praise will make me dance everyday""
"
Have you heard Indica Dance by Landa on SoundCloud? np 
Join us OnAirNow with The Noisy Freaks - I Need You Back (Original Mix) Electro House Deep House Dubstep 
" Yo this hurts too  another time, my date to the dance pulled a what tf is up w ya face? bc I was br "
let's shut up and dance
Is Elizabeth Warren wanting to impeach President Trump because he called her Pocahontas and Exposed her Lie of bein 
"That water dance with beta Erik Estrada was ridiculous, and I enjoyed all of it. TheLastDriveIn  "
idk why i think i can dance so well lmfao
Try a new physical activity with a friend. Yoga? Dance class? Self defense class? Pick something and go for it.
The  had some great moments. This community rocks! Thanks Rhonda Hamill for your commitment to the su 
Im sorry but watching Gambino dance has always been uncomfortable to me.
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Candle In The Wind by Elton John on  
Savanna just got a lap dance from a stripper and when she told her to smack her ass she said yes maam
 You need talk or dance alone in your home
 Pat and I would square dance to George Jones and then read penthouse forum to the kids.
"During pre-bedtime dance party with the kids, from the six-year-old:

If she is so lonely, why does she want someo "
"  Hey Healthy Holly, I think you should be better now. Its about time for you to play, sw "
. and The Homestead closes its set at Catasauquas Gas House Dance Hall  with appropriatel 
i'm trying to dance  
"Strong women, beautiful men, sparkly costumes, flashy dance scenes, catchy songs, and so much heart  the Mamma Mia movies are a TREASURE."
"Obamacare's Dance of the Horney Newt  via   , In lieu of shaking my t "
  She stops hollering to dance like a chick in the club for 15 seconds and does that maybe 5 times a night.
Someone dance to Mexican music with me 
Come dance with me... Check out Happy Friday! LiveDJ Rekordbox music entertainment English 
Daddy/daughter dance practice! Who's crying? I'm not crying.....yet! 
"Karaputia Dance   // Khaprakhol Block level Republic day celebration // part 2
"
Fit dance e pica
  They actually make me smile. Like BTS they also came from hardship. I like how much they 
 Your dancing is so beautiful I love watching it.. makes me miss dance so much
So did we figure out this dance to Before I Let Go yet?
not that Ive ever been a Party Girl but theres a new dance with directions in it that I dont know this is illegal
"See you on the dance floor! 
210 S. La Brea
Inglewood 
.
.
Zumba dance zumbafitness dancefitness "
  Daddy son dance
"In this house, we sing and dance when Stevie Wonder comes on the Ipod of awesome 
"
 Thanks for coming!! We shoulda been on the dance floor doing our 90s bit!
"On page 232 of 1113 of A Dance with Dragons, by George R.R. Martin "
"cry hard, dance harder indeed "
"Fuck Jordan Peterson. 
Fuck the Bruins.
Im gonna dance."
   Shorten limbo dance under snake arsehole. Thats low.
"Celebrate cultural connectivity through dance! Join us in Roxas City, Capiz on April 26-30 for DanceXchange2019! "
 Dreams do come true! He followed along with her then smirked. I hope you know how to dance.
Tunein to hear Dead Can Dance - The Host of Seraphim on  
"Tune-in 24/7 Memphis Tenn
Grand Master Flash - Larry's Dance Theme (Clean)
"
  free lap dance poggers
Did I hear that right?!?! 11 nights of  starting next Friday?!?!  Im so doing a happy dance! 
If I see one of them pull A fortnite dance at this birthday part I'm gonna boycott this show.BettyEnNY
 Would Beyonce be the greatest if she didn't dance and act when she sang?
"i miss being able to watch you dance your heart out ... &lt;3
happy birthday to this wonderful soul; heaven has a beau "
Lee Ann Womack - I Hope You Dance  via 
i know the entire dance to neighbouring tarzan... embarrassing
"Time to laugh it off. The Keys To Happiness. Two keyboard keys, a colon and a parenthesis, dance while holding hand "
 Blame it on the pop blame it on the dance blame it on the rock and roll
        
Tune in to hear  Dead Can Dance - The Host of Seraphim on  
listen to offonoff &lt;3  omg how have i never heard of them before?? gold and dance absolutely go OFF thank u anon a 
      who is raging on him?
"Join us at Jazzercise Carmichael, 4709 Gibbons Drive in Carmichael for LO Dance Mixx! "
"NowPlaying ""Skin"" by Rihanna on  just received the best dance of my life to this song 

 "
"Zi cratedig for music and research for dance. If you want quality, you have to be willing to work for it desu."
 dance for you da beyonce
"nowplaying Just Get Up and Dance by Luca Debonaire, Chris Marina "
Best rock pop dance music Now While You See A Chance by Steve Winwood on  
Now playing Summertime by DJ Jazzy Jeff &amp; The Fresh Prince music best hits rock pop dance on 
Let's go baby and dance now Fireball by Pitbull Feat. John Ryan on  
 Snake dance
 Anna Ur Dance Super
" Music: Dance you might get your original color back

Dance: I hope so

Lyric: ???"
" Can I learn this,  indeed to learn to dance better and I think this would great feet moves and hands moves "
    I lost count of the vile things said to me and abou 
Everybody dance! Listen to  and  
 You remember at your world of dance competition? 
What's it like living with me? It's watching me dance with my friend Catherine in the kitchen singing at the top of my lungs w
" What if Gloria &amp; Robert won the dance competition in ""They Shoot Horses, Don't They?"""
"Apparently the cure to a tiring, emotionally draining week is to get home and blast  new album and dance ar "
 So....it's the Dollar Dance?
 doesnt everyone just spin in circles while rolling along the edge of the hot tub as a mating dance? TheLastDriveIn
I wanna go out to dance too:/ 
"Dinah Jane could be the next superstar. Sis has the look, the vocals, can dance and has stage presence. But "
 Play Bye Bye Bye and I will bust out the entire dance that I just learned last night!
"Awesome Dance Moves From The '80s 

80s 80srock eighties rockandroll music glam glamrock metal heavyrock"
"   Hey, do you think these two sycophants will go down before or after yo "
We invited everyone OutOfTheCrypt to the dance party. 
The good dance-hall at gdaypubs. 
"Sing like no ones listening, love like youve never been hurt, dance like nobodys watching, and live like its he "
" ""the reason people stand and dance is narcissism""
*Asks everyone to stop enjoying themselves so he ca "
      Try raging on Kolfage. U k 
When you ask your friends at the club if they wanna go home yet &amp; they drag you onto the dance floor  
i used to go to a lesbian-centric dance club
"Fuck, thats it. Im giving Min a fucking lap dance to this song. "
I wish I knew how to dance... like any rhythm at all would be nice
pick me up to dance and pick me up again
Los Angeles Times: International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers. 
    It is the left the very night I debated this guy wa 
"Mating dance. Or mating swim. Or  aw fuckit.
 TheLastDriveIn
 "
"Omfg, this provocative sexy nudie hot tub dance is everything 
TheLastDriveIn"
cats do everything so fucking smoothly that i aspire to move like that when i dance. real shit they in the pocket
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Time Will Tell
 - Shermanology
 "
"i got time today and since ain no baby in this stomach, lets dance then!!! iain none of you hoes , ion fake no mfn "
"  J-Hope lindo ao som de Dance The Night Away, amo??"
"When youre looking for snazzy beat to dance to,  can never let you down. Dance the night away to their "
" Same goes for the idiot pitchers that have to fist pump, scream, dance or make some ridiculous han "
the amount of bruises i have on my knees from dance is ridiculous jksks
"Ohhh, I wanna dance with somebody [the Lord]"
Time to dance y'all 
 CONSIDER IT DONE. We need to have mastered the line dance by then too
having a dance party 
"Added ""In My Arms - Vocal Mix"" by Ferreck Dawn, Robosonic, Nikki Ambers to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playl "
"Added ""I'm Not Alone - CamelPhat Remix"" by Calvin Harris, CamelPhat to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist "
"Critics Pick: Review: In Hillary and Clinton, Codependence, and, Yes,Camaraderie "
whenever i listen to love me harder and heart attack i stop what im doing to dance to those songs. i love thos 
 How else are they supposed to do their mating dance?
Lets take a dance class to your own damn editors
Club Rockers 21  edmmusic edm dj edmlifestyle housemusic edmfamily dancemusic electronicmusic tomorrowland 
"   Cuomo, really you actually ask this dude is trump a pathological liar.....no, you da "
  Omar don't dance that much
 ay dance cover pla gasahahfsssfs ignore this pls
" you need to play Tootsie Roll, the Quad City DJs and the Ed Lover dance song"
"I will NOT dance for you again, Lilla."
Its Friday night yall. Put on your disco ball chains and ascots and hit the dance floor. Press kit and social con 
" nahhhh, it is amazing when I dance"
"Join us this year - Tickets Available on our Website 
Celebrating 20yrs of Dance
MarcellusDanceStudio "
Currently watching The Irreplaceable Tour: Dance Moms. It would have been nice to hear the actual solo music instea 
Somebody let me teach ya how to dance  
  You better keaster some lotion and chap stick. Your dance card is going to get really bus 
The hot tub mating dance of the elusive counselor couple. Notice how they dance and preen for each other. Madman TheLastDriveIn 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Waterfront by Simple Minds on  
If you are in town tomorrow you should definitely come out to Alexys Senior Dance Project!!! @ 2 in the GCB Auditor 
"Boring game by both teams. 

But I'm doing the happy dance just the same! 

My prediction stands: Leafs in 7.  "
Dance of the blessed spirits playing and making me enjoy life now
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching, Love like you'll never be hurt, Sing like there's nobody listening, And live like it's hea"
" Yeah, because the scanning machine isnt constrained by actual physical limitations huh? There HAS to "
"""And I chase it down with a shot of truth, 
Dancing through our house with the ghost of you. ~

""And I chase it dow "
Feeling like my first dance at my wedding will be to Dancing Queen
"What's it like living with me? 

It's watching me dance with my cat in the kitchen singing at the top of my lungs w "
"Blessed Full Moon! We celebrate with fire and dance  

fullmoon moon fire gonatural retreat. "
YOU MUST LEARN TO JOIN THE DANCE
"Original Pop Song Dance Remix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Sentimental Song "
    He is obsessed with Brian it's clearly a personal problem.
I wish I had a bigger role in sleeping beauty I die Everytime the leads dance 
 my eighth grade class had a running joke about it. one kid drummed to it in our talent show so then 
Everyone going out tonight to dance is probably the biggest betrayal my Mexican ass has to witness KDKD
I'm good at dancing. Moke is good at dancing. You know what that means? Dance unit?! HELL YES!
   Like that one time I told you to stand on the table and dance while I throw mone 
"I prefer not to dance on another's grave. I also prefer not to (need to) rub it in.

H o w e v e r,  she . is . sti "
"Beyonc is one of the greatest performers of all time, if not the greatest performer. Forget videos, HAVE YOU SEEN "
"Original Pop Ballad Song DeepHouse Remix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Ballad "
"Y'know what a dumb artist who's feeling cocky says?

""Ink a car entirely with a brush? Sure, let's dance."""
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino I Will Always Love You by Whitney Houston on  
"Its a wonderful night for a Moon dance! @ Navy Point, Florida "
    To show off her dance moves and dominance.
 when she did the reveal and WHEN SHE DOES HER DANCE MOVES LIKE EXCUSE ME MAAM  ?!
"""The bully always says its a joke, but to the one being bullied, its dead serious!"" Yusuke Fujisaki (SKET Dance)"
"Original Dance Pop Song Acid Techno Remix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Song "
" Love Game
Dance In The Dark
Scheisse 
John wayne/Angel Down 
Bang bang 
Shallow"
Mens dance shoes B 
i'm kind of annoyed that i see more dance stages than band stages of wsl bc a major reason they made wsl was bc the 
Happy dance!!! LeafsForever
 DANCE QUEEN WENT OFF OKAY WE SEE YOU
         
Jack and Jack should dance mooooore I love the little groove dance
 This is my chicken dance
 Reggae is the best music especially to dance too
"IF WE CANT DANCE TO IT, THEN IT IS NOT OUR REVOLUTION!!  "
Dance Little liar
"Original Trance Pop Song Original Mix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Trance "
"There are so many things I want to do over the summer like travel, take dance classes again, act in a community the "
"    Please stop.

When you are fleeing violence, you run. Do you think t "
my kid is doing this dance now 
" THATS THE DANCE ! its like a trend when somebody make the dance , you gotta do it !"
sometimes im on the street walking to places and living my real life and sundelly i remember hj does that dance .
 Ive seen this dance before 
I really just be getting drunk at the apartment alone and having a dance party. This is adulting.
[720p 60fps] MV T-ara Bunny Style White Dance ver.  via 
"Lord of the Dance. Spiritual teachings based upon ancient Indian Vedic principles, at the feet of Sai Baba. "
"Original Pop Ballad Song Tech House Remix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Song "
"I WANT TO dance wherever is playing Soulmate on repeat all night, plz send location"
"Happiness is a journey, not a destination.

Dance, as though no one is watching you
Love, as though you have never "
I havent been going to the gym but I periodically have a dance offs with myself in the mirror.. is that not the same thing?
Gangsta by Kehlani | Pole Dance Doubles | The Pole Project | Cape Town  via 
 Cheers to that. Im just about to have a little dance with Mary Jane and chill for the night. Have fun at the show tomorrow night.
I taught a bunch of high schoolers a 4 minute dance that I learned this morning. Im pretty proud of myself
Photos: Crowds gathered at  in Hartford on Thursday night to enjoy the music sensation Cimafunk and dan 
Counting down the days til Dance Gavin Dance with my fav person   Im just tryna get lit and jam
"Original Trance Pop Song Original Mix
Japanese Lyric Movie Enjoy!

Youtube


Pop Trance "
BOO+HANA The Corner19/4/19  
BUMMEI+ The Corner19/4/19  
"Having Romney in the Senate gives me a queasy feeling. Is this the best Utah can do?
fitness workout music guns "
So lastnight was my first official slow dance with another guy in a bar...  kinda feel pretty amazed with it.
Aubrey trying on her Jazz dance costume for the Expressions studios Cinderella themed recital in June. She is ge 
Grab the tissues. Father Daughter dance 
"yall wackos dont dance and try to put your in put on it. shut up, try doing what EITHER of them are doing, AND THE "
Adele make an album that's just her shouting about heartbreak over 90s dance beats
   Again: People coming to America can only claim asylum at THE PORT OF ENTRY. 
That's that 140 million dollar bag dance 
 My daughtera dance class performed a dance drama on Ramanavami..there was a piece.which said Rama and 
" Pooh Dance  via 

pooh Disney musically danse funny fun happy cute"
GOTCHA The Corner19/4/19  
" Democrats do not want truth. They only want loyal puppets to dance to their tune, even if they don't "
"she likes to dance to the rap jam, she sweet as brown sugar with the candied yams, honey coated complexion "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Crush by Jennifer Paige on  
 Everything gets a line dance in Texas.
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Don't Take It Personal (Just One Of Dem Days) by Monica on 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Get Up (Rattle) [ft. Far East Movement] by Interpretes Varios on 
 Was dude doing the Im a little teapot dance in his face lmao
  Let's see the dance.
Come hither and dance with this harem inside my heart
Tonight Im going home to my own dance party.
"Word of warning, don't play dance dance revolution drunk..  it doesn't end well "
"  Copy paste &amp; retweet to clear the search!

JHOPE IS CUTE
JHOPE IS ADORABLE
JHOPE IS HANDSOME
J "
 Dance is art. 
This dance go with everything 
"listen closely... chungha, seulgi, momo, yves, and hyuna. a group dance. together. "
how can you say j-idols cant dance in sync when morning musume is literally right there
 dumb &amp; dumber y last dance
"Original Pop Song 80's House Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song Dance House Music "
"synopsis of prom tonight

all star: starts playing 
entire dance floor: erupts into applause"
DJ NYE takes over the Lobby Saturday night. You can expect him to bust out scorching vibrations that will keep you 
Who has a dance party on Good Friday?! I cannot wait to move. T - 7 days
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Bad (Radio Edit) by David Guetta &amp; Showtek on  
The brazilian version of the song Barbie Girl makes me want to laugh and dance at the same time
*insert happy dance* 
DOWNLOAD AND REPOST THIS SHIT EVERYWHERE!!!!!! newmusic independent hiphop rap club dance California texas 
Russ been playing off cause he doesn't dance before his games anymore
One thing I love about local jazz performances is the older couples there that hear a song and get up and share a dance.
"dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif, teeth, viernes, chri "
" Thank you, seniors! It's been a privilege to watch you dance. You will be missed!  "
Fav if I should start posting mine and lucis (my cat) dance vids 
 I usually see a pole and just dance on it but some people are different
"you cant even dance to gagas shallow

me: "
"Original Pop Song DeepHouse Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song DeepHouse House
Music "
u fking slay everytime u dance ugh
"Jesus looked at them and said, ""With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."" Matthew 19:26 "
Bitchhhh I swear I wish I could dance dance
Watching Napoleon Dynamite. I freakin love this movie! Deb is soo hot! Plus the music in this pretty freakin sweet! 
"Original Pop Song  DeepHouse Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song DeepHouse House
Dance "
its boutta really be me when i can dance again when my ankle heals
"Added ""Giant - Purple Disco Machine Remix"" by Calvin Harris, Rag'n'Bone Man, Purple Disco Machine to my FGLD!  Fuc "
"we will perform madu dan racun this coming thursday so how wanna dance?

hm lagu tu kan cemana sia nak buat chore "
Matty made me want to listen to my Yonc playlist and dance all the songs i know the choreography for.
"Added ""Delicious"" by Gorgon City to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify  "
 Dont worry sis moapil tag dance workshop
          
"Added ""Break 97 - Original Mix"" by Mark Broom to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist on Spotify "
Why haven't any of the pop girls (namely Gaga/Bey) done a poppy musical dance film yet? It'd be a look.
One of our favorite silly TeamBuilding lessons at  today was the Captains Dance! FieldTrippin 
"Five-time 1 DJ in the world,  &amp; Grammy-winning producer Garibay have join forces for their newest p "
love seeing the bartenders dance
 Happy dance
"Original Pop Song  DeepHouse Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song DeepHouse House
Dance "
Alright but how do I learn to dance like Childish Gambino
Like moonlight through the ghost dance
One last dance! 
Did you catch my dope trap remix I spun for the German dance? It goes perfect with my choreography and lighting design
The Muller report is available everywhere to read and yet Republicans act like they have never seen it and they sin 
Playing at my schools swing dance 
"No one: 

Literally no one:

Not even god himself:

Me: do the paper chasing dance"
You know whats way more difficult than that 1st baby? Having 3 kids old enough to do activities. We had dance and 
still waiting for that boy with luv dance practice
watch your broken dreams dance in and out of the beams of a neon moon
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Ride Like The Wind by East Side Beat on  
" Sounds crazy, dont know the guy, havent met him, although sometimes I feel i do ... as I relate with "
Need to have a girls night to go out and dance 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Machika
 - J Balvin, Jeon + Anitta
 "
PETITION FOR ARASHI TO HAVE SOMETHING LIKE THIS FOR 521! Jun needs to be joined on stage by so many darn cute masc 
Im not really a dancer at concerts but if I was in front of him I would become an interpretive dance master 
 p.s. DANCE PARTY
 i mean most hit songs r made to be popular and non 4/4 songs aren't as easy for most people to like dance too n follow n shit
Stefflon Don - 16 Shots | NARIA choreography | Prepix Dance Studio 
  &amp; luci always have the right dance moves to pick me up when Im down 
"    No one cares what you expect. 

And it doesn't sound like they were fleei "
That dance though 
"I dance while I go bouldering, call that Milly Rock Climbing"
the way moose from step up was one of the main reasons i love dance sm is pretty cool
Let's go baby and dance now Hangover by Taio Cruz on  
live Headlights by Suspect 44 music  radio onair dance
"Hi, my name is Darcy and I am an adorable Ducorps cockatoo who loves to dance. I was named after the ballerina and "
Or a 55 year old man licking his lips while he watched 22 y/o females dance and grab their asses and think thats o 
"  Before anyone of us knew what Michael Jackson looked like as children, we knew his danc "
"Not a really fans of Beyonce, but her Homecoming perfomance is lit!! March, Dance, Wardobe, and deff Her are briliant!! KEREN JUGA YAH."
"Its recital season! Celebrate the occasion with this personalized jewelry thats sure to be kept and loved. 


 "
"Sometimes I want a boyfriend but then Im like wait nvm... He probably wouldnt like that I get drunk on a Tuesday, "
^^^ for those who didnt believe me that I Irish dance  come see!!!
3mil more to get the dance practice 
" $30 to go up and then $25 a dance after that, the club gets the $30 and then we keep all the dance money and tips"
 LKJKJ who was he even watching dance?!
"It is 2025.

They remake the Willy Wonka movie again. It's a DreamWorks Animated film this time. 

The Oompa Loompa "
 'KILL THIS LOVE' - BLACKPINK - Cover Dance  Softpomz  
        
"Thank you bunnings for the family fun today. 

Tattoo KidsArt Dolphin 
 "
hahaha i ate almost 1500 calories today like a damn fool :-) and i might end up getting ice cream with my mom soon 
  About to try doing the dance
I danced on a Friday when the sky turned black: It's hard to dance with the Devil on your back. They buried my body 
"they dance very well, I love the music they make and how the music sings   "
I think that squirrel dance is more akin to what  does as a warm-up before a Dolphin Club swim.
 Hi to the legend hard dance Chicago DJ
Do you remember this KOKOBOP 2x speed dance for EXO Ls?  
 Never mind. I was looking. Thats what everything says.  I swore there was an interview with axl wher 
"Is this some sort of truck freestyle dance thing? What's going on?
"
" Check this out :) Its a dance cover of WOW 
"
"Come and see  Maria KAIF 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance girl   
 "
 working hard on me and this money baby. REAL KING DEVASTATOR x legendary kennethterry smile 
    See no one was inferring it was anyone you might know
"WHERE WAS BTS and DIONYSUS WHEN I WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL - 

literally was in a greek dance theatre group and that song "
I feel like my cousins and I are the only people that got taught how to dance to the Kumbia Kings!
"One waistbead is enough!!!
Four, five, six is cultural dance costume.
All thats left is to call drummers to follow "
sungoh trying to comeback and learn dance moves after being gone for 3 years 
 Sorry tbh I just guessed but what is your favorite style of dance
        
"In tribute to an obvious influence,  and The Homestead does a ripping cover of  You Wre "
So my school had a rally today and the male teachers decided to dance to DNA  BTS 
"Lifes a dance, you learn as you go"
Another asked me if I was Dominican because of my POSTURE. IDK if he thought all Dominican women were Zoe Saldana a 
 Omg you got it amd we dance
 instant classic blackgirlmagic heyladies blackgirlsswim adorable dance royalty courtesy of   
" She's soon to be back ooooooooooooon the markeeeeeeeeeeeet.  Uhn 

Doin' a little Sam Rockwell dance. "
"Midnight Release is at WindCreekAtmore! 
Come dance with us! "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Oh Mon Bateau by Eric Morena on  
"Shop, Eat, Dance, Repeat at This Night Market in Queens "
   You do the silence of the lambs dance in front of your mirror don't you Eric!
MHS Dance Show 2019.....its Showtime! 
"2.38am and Ive already shed tears whilst overlooking a load of old Avicii videos.

Today is gonna be a tough day f "
"""Learning how to hip-hop dance like this isnt easy in isolated communities, but a program that travels from commun "
"Please see this on YouTube,search as Myna Hazarika Dance Video,And don't forget to Suscribe,like and comments on th "
"Tickets for the Decades Dance will continue on SCHOOL CASH ONLINE until Monday! Make sure you get them soon for 5$, "
 im sorry im a dirty rotten liar  stream drag me down  their new dance practice is coming soon!!!!
  Sadhwi Pragya was victim of political vendetta. She suffered torture in prison for tens o 
"I just read a review of The Last Dance and the reader called it 'a beautiful story'.
Say, what?!?! Beautiful story? "
"How does one dance to  I wonder. Because every time I try, all I feel like doing (and end up doing) i "
In need of a girls night to dance all my stress away.
        
1st Grade Designing play set/Animation Studio Day2/ Learning Dance Steps    
"I got a real question, what do the bride and groom talk about during their first dance"
All  and I do when were drunk is dance to Ariana. 
I should be sleeping but Im doing mehendi dance practises
Grab my hips and dance with me.
Somebody teach me how to dance country
"(To Sebastian) ""You idiot! Do you think I'd dance with a big, male partner like you?!"""
" Been thinking since you posted this, Can't explain why, but not into celebrations.   OK with emoting, bu "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Starlette by B.B. &amp; Q. Band on 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Damn I Wish I Was Your Lover by Sophie B. Hawkins on 
"Save the last dance is so cringe, but I love it"
 Ill dance in public with you
DeeWunn ft Marcy Chin - Mek It Bunx Up | NARIA choreography | Prepix Dance Studio 
"on the plus side, now i can dance wirelessly to bad weeb music."
"Check out my unproggramed beats.
music musiclove beats musicmaker listen beat  bhfyp Djokovic fashion "
"* Free DL * | ""Drew G - Drew Does Dallas (Set Mix)"" | mixed by  | Dance House Podcast Remix  "
"Most of us are arts trained.... Some are musicians, some dance, some dig the fine arts, and some craft. Maybe the b "
Ornette Coleman - Toy Dance
I just wanna go to shows and dance all summer.
hiiiii UMIAMI / CORAL GABLES ppl  my sister  is looking for summer housing for a psych internship on U 
i got just daNCE
"Watch me play Shut up &amp; dance by nct, jason derulo and lay at my party just so i can show my family that kpop idols "
Abuja clubs....like fuck wrong with yall ...yall dont dance ?!!
DEMI LIVE TOMMORROW! In brooklyn  demi demidavis pop singersongwriter artist music dance edm concert 
Dance party 
"Ostrich dance! (It's the ""I Will Kill You To Death"" dance.)  via "
Imma dance my ass off on my wedding night! 
The only thing that can relieve the pain from this loss is Just Dance.
" literally , olivia. i now physically cringe with embarrassment at ANY award/dance/sing show. its hilariously SAD."
i taught my grandma the be alright dance AHAHAHAHA she loves that song
DJ GOA - Jazz Dance Is Fun And Joy
" 
THE 21 DAY SENSUAL DANCE SUMMONING

Starts tomorrow! 

Currently for women only but that could change in th "
"Romney has been hanging out with establishment sick heads, Maybe he caught a bug.
fitness workout music guns "
        
  Which dance did she choreographed please? 
I can't dance
"my little rabbit, I love your voice and your dance, I love how you can be cute and sexy at the same time  "
The Drifters - Save The Last Dance For Me
Sitting on the porch listening to the rain and watching lightning dance across the sky. Theres worse ways to spend a night.
Uncle pat is here everyone. Get the dance floor ready
And now I am PSYCHED for the modern dance
        
my mean coworker said she hated dance the night away and that its twices worst song and thats how i knew i would never grow to like her
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Girls Just Want To Have Fun by Cyndi Lauper on  
"Brand new 1930s British music post from the YouTube channel of Pax41 Music Time Machine
The Divine Sound Of 1930s B "
  That dancer tho. Props to her for incorporating spy antics into the dance.
if anyone played 100+ open cups before qualifying i promise to buy him a lap dance in vegas
The dance at the end lmaoooo 
"Getting ready for a week full of events! 

*Dance Xchange  4/26-30/19
*Fiesta  4/26-27/19
*Blowout  4/27/19
*El "
Cant dance but love me some SOCA
Im at the dance recital for school and they have dabces to The Nicest Kids in Town and Cruisin for a Bruisin and The Partys Just Begun
" There is nothing to wonder about.  
The scientists who develop these vaccines are in it to eradicate dis "
i was gonna learn a dance but i took my dog on a walk so nvm lmao
"I just went and played Just Dance for an hour and Im sweating through my clothes and you are now looking at the 2, "
"Added ""Body Funk - Claptone Remix"" by Purple Disco Machine, Claptone to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Playlist "
Let's go baby and dance now Cake By The Ocean by DNCE on  
"Added ""John's Church (feat. Nils Ohrmann)"" by Oliver Dollar, Nils Ohrmann to my FGLD!  Fuck Genres Let's Dance Pla "
"Added ""Till We Meet Again - Inner City Edit of Carl Craig Remix"" by Inner City, Carl Craig to my FGLD!  Fuck Genre "
 The dance is fine. But the song is meh
"   Showing up? If you score a TD you can actually do a dance routine now. 

Why can "
" Dance Therapy
Twist
Electro Swing
Slick
Slitherin"
" Cute without the 'E' - Taking Back Sunday
Artist in the Ambulance - Thrice
Curse of Curves - Cute is "
"What are you doing tomorrow??? COME DANCE WITH US! Register now at  
 @ MET dance Compan "
" Junghwan and Jeongwoo came form the same dance academy in Iksan
 He trained for 9 months
 He performed Supermar "
These Prostitutes have gone nuts after becoming unemployed due to IK's media policy. Always posting their super ove 
"Death Arrested 2: My orphan heart was given a name
My mourning grew quiet my feet rose to dance
When death was arre "
- The Les Twins bring so much personality to their dance. Your eyes remain on them.
"     And you continue this ruse because...

""I didn't 'please' "
girls think they can hop up on stage their first night with 0 dance experience and 0 hustle and walk out with racks 
" JHOPE IS CUTE
JHOPE IS ADORABLE
JHOPE IS HANDSOME
JHOPE IS TALENTED
JHOPE IS PRECIOUS
JHOPE IS A DANCE "
" Our Dancer King  KangDaniel

 Every detail of his dance line is so beautiful  "
Whatever happened to that guy who was featured in lady Gagas song just dance lmfao
dancei horrores no Just dance
"I'm happy to report that I have not ever packed Sillt for a con called, ""So You Think You Can Dance?"" but it only h "
"  Man could write, spit, act &amp; dance all at professional levels all well before the age of 25 "
Hopes e Dreams (Extended dance mix)Albert one
Am I too old to learn ballet  cause I really wanna learn how to dance
" Haha, I was literally listening to a hip-hop beat study playlist. I'm actually cackling that inspired you "
"last dance practice tonight  were performing tomorrow at 2.30pm, come thru for a taste of Malaysian &amp; Singaporean "
 How can I kill my demons if they know how to dance
"An honour to speak at the Karen Bendigo Water Festival 2019 paying respect to elder community. Dance, music &amp; cel "
Dance king  
 is one of the few artists I act like a fool dance and sing for. 
"More of this, less of that soumdcloud weirdo rap. This gets the rhe heads bobbin and dance floor packed. oldskool "
"Jaehyun  as EXO

 vocals on point, good dance and rap too 
 0 to 100 real fast 
 Love Shot concept.. think a "
"The saga of the school dance dresses continues. Ordered three beautiful gowns for roo on  Today, we r "
"this fortnite ""floss"" dance has taken my ass by storm"
Discernement: Black Swan Official Dance Scene with Natalie Portm... 
Hey  please call up Vladdy and put an end to this dance. FreeVladdy
"I love when hula people make a statement for the places that they pray, chant, sing and dance to. "
Still have plenty of seats to come have fun dance drink and every dollar is going to support local veterans and the 
The GSCA has put a TON of work into this dance and it would me a lot to me if you guys would come check it out  in 
" Junghwan and Jeongwoo know each other before YG TREASURE BOX. Theyre both from Iksan City, Jeollabuk-do (North J "
"The Russian government extensively tried to help Trump, and the campaign welcomed that help, setting up several me "
"

NCT 127 'Chain' Dance Practice

NCT127 Chain

"
"Saturday Fitness with the Sweat Atlanta Soldiers and myself. Come join us for a healthy start to your weekend! 

10 "
 +-Just keeping things fresh sweetie(giggles) First up is one that captures some of my happy happy joy joy 
I just wanna dance.
"Youtube Video: [Dance Practice]  (MONSTA X) - JEALOUSY
is going to have a special place on my heart FOREVER, i "
Wistfully staring outside thinking how nice it would be to dance in the rain instead of writing legal memos..
Whos trying to play just dance? please come over
 yeah sis i wanna dance with BONNIE
"customer's voice
Best dance performance I witnessed in my life, a lot of emotions transferred with the beautiful "
 has you covered in LA for your 420 turn up! 420 turnup Exclusive swag VIP SaturdayNight 
"If me, Say a beautiful dance Hot-blooded, that's a toad in the bullshit's gone too strong Techno tried to do."
It was a dinner party turned doomsday turned eternal victory dance. The greatest reason for celebration this side o 
my mom let me skip dance because I NEVER sleep during the day and because I was just straight up unresponsive
"Turn your boombox up, and get on the floor. If you're looking for the perfect mix of dance songs from the 1990s, lo "
"Ill think of the sun,
how he taught me to shine
when it hurts
and to dance when I break.
all those days I cried 
a "
q saudades de Just dance
"Day 13: Best Dance Cover

Weki Meki has undeniably one of the strongest dance skills among ggs as of late and it sh "
 You should really check out this dance cover! The boys worked very hard and it'd mean the world to them 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : It Just Won't Do
 - Dr. Kucho!
 "
did she pull out the church dance dress? our part time porn-star? I love this woman
freddydouglas sophia_musings fbf tango reddress istillownthatreddress thenightoftheblackcat 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino If You Don't Know Me By Now by Simply Red on  
josie really abandoned her boyfriend in the middle of her homecoming dance to go boonch this girl hope.... i have t 
Just taught two 2.5 year olds how to do the sprinkler dance move and part of the cha cha slide. I am officially con 
should've give you all my hours when i had the chance take you to every party cause all you wanna do was dance now 
  let me dance with yall wtf
" Copy paste &amp; retweet to clear the search!

JHOPE IS CUTE
JHOPE IS ADORABLE
JHOPE IS HANDSOME
JHOPE IS TALEN "
"Say Goodbye, as we dance with the devil tonight "
I just figured something out that Ive been trying to figure out for the longest. Now I can dance  happy 
"This Week in iQ Trivia... people dance to our music questions, more TriviArt sculptures, and some people get really "
"If Romney is sick, maybe he should go on leave, and stop helping the Democrats.
fitness workout music guns gym "
 me coming back from the dance floor 
"Check it, my beautiful queen recreating the memorable dance scene from dirtydancing look how amazing she is. Wow "
" I think it is awesome when they get into it.  Next time, strike him out and dance around the mound!  If "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Do You Remember by Phil Collins on  
Stop countin...I got too many dance moves
 Im his dance partner tonight lol gotta ask him
   I like to think I'm well read and vast and I don't know any Beyonce signature mo 
   Thats the shithole dance
none of my friends ever wanna shuffle with me i just dance around my house by myself
 I dont dance tho...
At least she is helping women who are really in need and need help.  Plus she can dance . Hollyweirds like Alyssa 
   Dont tell us you cant dance because you can  
 this could be us if either of us knew how to dance 
Just remembered that my last day is Wednesday and I did a little dance.
" Thank you Nick, that means a lot! I am going to do everything I can for the kids that I do &amp; don't teach! "
i really dance like a white gurl 
" But can she dance all by herself &amp; entertain us the way Michael did ,I won't he say he didn't have "
"Just favorited ""Msd.Remixes ... Club Dance Mission Vol.103"" by Msd.Remixes / Michail.D on Mixcloud "
"nia called me and as soon as i answered she screamed ""IIIIII WANNA DANCE WITH SOMEBODY"" like girl same but what kind of friends do i have"
"I'd like to dance your spool of ribbon, baby."
"Tonights special blend:
- 2 cool cats (Miles Tackett &amp; Shane Love)
- 1000s vintage vinyl records
- 100s of ice cold "
"I just liked No, I Don't Want to Dance! on Vimeo: "
"  1/3
Here's the reason why I love txt, During my training days of being an athlete, I met "
" Birthday Gallery - Daphne Loves Derby 
Sadie Hawkins Dance - Relient K
Take On Me - Weezer version"
i might post the half assed dance cover tomorrow
Ha! I'm gonna beat all of your sorry asses in this dance contest.
" Yes, next week 11 day marathoon of Live PD.  happy dance"
  Dance for me I see first hahaha
I dont need to prom date in order to dance
Ariana Grande - No Tears Left To Cry - Dance Choreography by Jojo Gomez 
"Lets secure the Bodenwieser Dance Centre. Sign with me now!
"
They just smash it and burn. FILIPINO! AT HIS BEST! Im inlove with that dance  routine. WOD  
what i think i look like when i dance at Axis 
" He said, Ill try my best to touch people with powerful high notes
 Three expressions that describe him are G "
"Why did the mushroom ask the girl to dance?

Because he was a fungi!"
"""You can't dance to Mariah Carey's music"" "
" Yes, but I don't think jimin is kind of boy, I think he really appreciate Kay's Friendship and I think "
Let's go baby and dance now Judas by Lady Gaga on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Who Can It Be Now? by Men At Work on  
-Going live  join my live i will be adding people to dance finest.redd(INSTAGRAM NAME)
You expect me to clap for your Fortnite dance? 
"Original Dance Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
"How fucking amazing it'd be to get drunk with this man, laugh, dance and have fun the whole night until the sun goe "
 Notice how they all looked to see what the guy next to them is doing? Like 3 year olds at a dance recital.
"""It's hard to dance with a devil on your back"""
I like how the misfits ghost face comes out during the dance routine!?...\m/=^-^= KC3AGI =^-^= O.C. R 
Dance 4 Eternity
So deep cleaning my room bc Im bored &amp; I found a pair not ripped nude dance tights.... thats like deadass treasur 
By Dance Also. The Sweet Joy Of New Relatives Of Lapis Lazuli Color Saturation Pheromone Legs Mutzri Accounting Department
"[ WKDfm: Whitney Houston - I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves Me).mp3 
  
 Live, Legal a "
Dont mind my little mishap dance aamu firstheelsclass likeever 
"Breath in. 
The cold air. 
I wish you could see the dust dance around in the light rays that enter from the window. "
"Original Pop Song Acid Techno Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
MVMust be now (Dance ver.)/NMB48[] 
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy  via 
186_Alphaville - Dance With Me
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino I'm Going To Sing A Sad Song Suzie by Kenny Rogers on 
This dance looks cool  
"I was giving this guy a lap dance and he started sobbing. I asked what was wrong, and the only thing he told me was "
"Sing, dance, darling.
Cmon, will you dance, my darling?
Darling, theres a place for us;
can we go, before I turn "
"from my favorite spoken word poem ""Human the Death Dance"" by  "
+they be saying like they are not wrong tho like btch??? lisa is a dancing machine and for what reason does sh 
 My son loves you so much! He requested to dance to this song  
"My bf always laughs at me when I just dance when Im super happy to eat my good food
And we just died bc we just sa "
"Original Pop Song Techno Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
Doin the shmoney dance yaheaard 
   Did this in hs being on dance team. It was always a thing with us. I felt so va 
" Pregnancy dance mix, thats one Ive not heard before*chuckles*"
What BTS song would you like for TXT to make a dance cover of?  can this be possible 
Alex Orga's surprise proposal to Roxana Loperena + their first dance as an engaged couple. 
"Original Pop Song Electro Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
 That sounds quite industrious and creative to come up with their own dance routines
  btw... when's the dance video going up on YouTube? I keep watching it on Twitter &amp; it's up to 22.5k views!
Either you make drinking alone a one person dance party or you lay down and become depressed. Theres no in between
"Just clearing up after a dinner for my 8 most favourite people, who Im not related to.  Alexa is doing a good job "
" Lets all agree to not listen to anything most celebrities say unless its in a movie. And even then, "
         
 yo mrbeast they out your dance into fortnite lmaoo
I bought a ring last weekend and this bitch dance so fucking crazy I had to brag lol
Carly Rae Jepsen Wants You Back on Aching Dance Jam 'Julien': Listen  via 
   Excellent article. I hope that the road Mueller has left us to follow 
" So let me ask you , Don't think Beyonce is about every routine &amp; choreography with so many stage e "
It's time to planning your kids summer activities... dance camp!  Contact us now to sign up! There are 3 different 
"Lets argue; Destinys Child is the greatest girl group  of ALL TIME vocals, vocal arrangement, dance . PeriodT  "
Celebrating NSEdWeek19 with Etoile ! GROS Merci Thank you students and staff for a great Spring Sock Hunt and Outd 
Dance the night away 
 internally screaming! Ive been a fan of her since dance moms! She is so sweet!!   
" +-Good, cuz I set up a pregnancy dance mix. A little cardio with slow dancing. Cuz were still celebrating "
"sorry, did i say dance? 
i meant jump and twirl around like a butterfly on CRACK. "
"BASICALLY WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO IS DANCE
YEAH THAT'S RIGHT ITS SNEAKER NIGHT "
 yes  will u dance with me
 this is the new fusion dance bro 
tryna dance watching beyonc and my damn knee buckled
"James Nguyen - 2nd year IDancer
I find your lack of faith disturbing
Come support James in our upcoming dance con "
"   The dolphins jumping over the Banks childrens bathtub.  Its so joyful!
2. "
Down by Jay Sean is what plays in a 7th graders head when they walk through the entrance of their first school dance
 You remember that dance?
"Friday night 

Share your joy with friends! Invite them to our studio and share this post!

cordova memphis "
a group at my schools dance concert is dancing to youth and they put mendez and i cant stop laughing 
Hoshi freestyle dance in a random song. No doubt he is the leader of the performance team. 
  The fusion dance quote got me. Could be a design series tho... What If...NASCAR 
"I never knew I was shameless in public enough to gasp, dance around in my seat, cry, BEAM until I watched Beyonc's "
Now playing Je Danse Le Mia by IAM music best hits rock pop dance on  
"

NCT 2018  2018 'Black on Black' Dance Practice

NCT NCT2018 BlackonBlack

"
Every kid does the same dance move on the jumbotron... GROW UP!
 Im stuck at home going to a dance with a bunch of people who I dont like
"Playing
 Alison Lorraine - Hey Waitress hits Pop Dance Club   
 "
"if i dont put Harlem out of my playlist,ill just have to dance till the morning!"
Really proud of my Ss as they demonstrated their Science learning through Dance!  And we fun doing it at the 
"compare
I could dance around, run in the rain till it washed away all my brown.
This feeling I'm feeling I could fe "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Like That Sound (Radio Cut) by Syke 'n' Sugarstarr Feat. Jay Sebag on 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Miss Sarajevo by Passengers on  
Now playing: George Clinton Presents The P FUNK ALL STARS - Belita Woods - Don't Dance To Close on 
" Classic King, Dance Machine "
 Is it just me or are the B's being too cute with the puck? Constantly trying to dance and deake aroun 
"AC's Dance Cover ""Kill This Love"" by BLACKPINK Trending 20. Please keep on watching and sharing ACnatics!"
"Ya Girl link in bio and on ALL digital platforms .
.
.
.
.
bestaddit iambestaddit yagirl dance thankyou "
" I remember that term. Also, the Tarutaru dance macros. Man, I miss FFXI sometimes."
" THIS is why i  hanbin dance!! he really didn't need hard choreography~ he just have THAT IMPACT , aura? e "
"jus shut da fuck up ima still eat it, ya right stop talking to me lick my no hands "
"Found my old dance costumes, and decided this little cutie needed some  "
  I see that without knowing the books. Her dance with death.
"At the most awkward prom ever. Sponsored by a country station with not much country music. People dressed for prom, "
"""So in the line of this dance, you are now my man and I your girl. Our love overflows, it is not difficult to see t "
LITERALLY ONE DIRECTION DIDNT WVEN DANCE WHAT 
 I miss seeing Aaron dance
"Blythe phoned this evening. Horrid thing, he won't let Hugh take me to the dance. OTD1919"
"if I could dance &amp; learned all of this choreography, Id be set for my workouts "
lets sing get lit dance have fun 
"likesmixednuts
.
      Not so Fast, Comrades ... Your BARR Song &amp; Dance Got DeBunked !!
.
                The Whol "
 The test that stumped all and Dance of eternity... The best songs!!!
Today's Dance YouTube Video Armin van Buuren &amp; Garibay's Phone Down 
"8.  As if this wasn't funky enough already, it's got Keytar!  

(Keep Seor Chang away from it though) "
 at 50 too old to slam dance...but with this song...would give it a go... SAY A PRAYER FOR ME
"ros is so cute omg she said the main dance move of du du du is to be savage, show them your jawline, and that highlight LMAO"
" Ofc, Beautiful move and dance from this Man. KangDaniel  "
" listen here
if she wanted to dance around with the hose she'd already be doing as much. 

next."
"Romney might want to try an antacid. Trump has the support of his party and of many millions of Americans.
fitness "
"""Be Cool""- dance scene, John Travolta and Uma Thurman "
Dance Show happening NOW 
This Is Entertainment (Radio dance mix)Voodoo &amp; Serano
I've been listening to reggeton since I got to work now I wanna go to a quince and dnce
You ever dance with the devil in the pale moon light? 
"Program gives First Nations students opportunity to learn how to dance, life skills | CBC News "
Really feeling this set! So comfy and cute Ill forgive the nip slips peep my story to see me dance im too lazy to 
"Btw... If anyone wondering I'm dancing right now. Just Dance 2017 on PC :)
 /bwsword"
 IM FUCKING INHUMANLY GOATED RN I WANNA SING I WANNA DANCE I WANNA SCREAAM TILL IM IN GOATED DIVISION
GO GO DANCE / GO GO GIRLS  SUPEREUROBEAT
    at the beach when we had our own dance party 
"  We been through that song and dance, and you guys couldn't fix it. I am good, thanks"
 Can't wait to see you dance one day! I'm a fan lol 
 a whole dance leader 
 He actually looks just like James May. He looked like he was a dead cert with this geek chick on the 
whenever I listen to  I just think about how much I'd love to put on a catchy tune and dance with 
"I was in the mood to dance , but I changed my mind"
"1. Knock knock
2. Dance the night away 
3. Like ooh-ahh 
4. Heart shaker 
5. What is Love "
"Literally how I dance at the club 

&amp; in my car "
  Shhhss everyone coming for me huh  I shouldve dance 
"  How does make sense that if you say where you're going to build, people will sue.

But if you "
Need a man that wont be afraid to dance in public with me
Im so happy Im watching this game with no one around because that dance I just did after the Kapanen goal shouldnt be made public.
"  their little dance in that scene, simply iconic"
"News Update April 19, 2019: Local woman nominated for Impact Award, Weather wreaks havoc, Gun shop heist, Art Conte "
"Evidently it's ""Boy Band Night"" in St. Louis at the  They're having people do the  Bye Bye Bye dan "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Can't Stop The Music by Village People on  
 Practice the dance thats what im doing
DJ S   MONDAYS AT 3PM GMT 9PM EET 4 HIS FABULOUS RETURN 2 THE CLASSICS SHOW ONE HOUR OF PURE SOUL FUNK DANCE
" It has been a while. Darn those democrats, it seems like it hasn't been a while at all, same old s "
This is an event called Tinkling. Tinkling is a traditional Philippine folk dance and involves people coordinating 
"mingming can sing, dance, rap, choreograph, play piano, is a filial child, is hardworking and helpful, has a sweet "
 He needs to be released! Im done with this song and dance from him!
"They're so god damn awesome. Here's a short interview with them I found: 

 "
i thought yunho is going to goof again with the sexy dance BUT HE AINT PLAY GAMES NOW 
" Funny thing is, Robert Reed seriously HATED the Brady Bunch, but he was enthusiastic about the variety ho "
 i saw one dance sequence that was a TIA knockoff and i said nah ... lolol
"Loreena McKennitt - The Mummers' Dance 
 "
"Selina , Anice &amp; Kodie Are in dance together &amp; chileeee your daughter is doing back flips &amp; Chinese splits you would be SO Press LoL "
"World of Dance Season 3, Week 8 (The Cut)  Who Got Robbed?? (New Poll)  "
lmfaobrookes dance covers have more views than fancams 
i'm watching spider-man: homecoming and the little montage of aunt may and peter getting ready for the dance still KILLS me!!!!!
Maybe some REAL dance music could help ZBadBoyZ19
" +-Oh heck yeah(hooks my arm in yours and walks you to the great room)Lets dance. A little peppy at first, "
  American
 Here is the Yiutube video link. Enjoy!! Also this is a dance competition at Landstuhl
"New Song 
Artist:  
Song titled PDS (Proper Dance Song)
 listen and share..... "
"PLEASE SHARE. THANK YOU COME VISIT RAINBOW SKY
APR 20 SRU Annual Craft and Vendor Show MARROW FIELD HOUSE CRAFTS, B "
"  Thank you

She could be so sensual when she played

She'd close her eyes and sway &amp; fellas "
can't stop thinking about this girl in ghost's dance macabre music video she's soo gorgeous 
When your ma calls you like eh are you coming to get this mf or naw  alexa GPS me to sacramento rn eh alexa pl 
"Trynna dance with some big booty puchucas, que paso?"
Hit me up if ya want some Spanish dance lessons for a fair price 
Some poor womans gonna marry me one day and this will be played 3 times for our first dance tbh 
"""Dance! Nothing left for me to do but dance!~"" EvanBot"
" Like,,,you can still go dance you dont need a costume its not halloween. Idgi"
i finally got time to watch luhenyangs dance and pls theyre so talented
"The fact they perform getting closer in casual clothes 
Looks: SOFT UWUWU
Dance: hardcore 
Lmao"
"Join us for the 14th Annual Dance of the Spring Moon Lumbee Powwow! May 3-5, 2019 at the Lumbee Tribe Cultural Cent "
Pretending I can dance like this in my jammies ThingsIHaventOutgrown 
A big dance a gwan? Zeen
Wooooow these birds really got a whole dance squad like the Jabbawockeez OurPlanet
"What do you think?? World of Dance Season 3, Week 8 (The Cut) - Who Got Robbed?? (New Poll)  WorldofDance"
 Life isn't about waiting for the storm to pass...It's about learning to dance in the rain. Meet my 
"DRAGON DANCE X6 + HIGH JUMP KICKS 

""YOU ARE UNDER ARREST FOR BEING UNWHOLESOME TOWARDS BRYSEN!"""
        
my body is still so sore from dance im actually fucking dying what
"Jeongguk entered the automatic doors of Namjoons studio, immediately greeted by a refreshing whiff of air conditio "
" Lyric: ....

Music: Oh...

Dance: *hair changes colors a little* "
"OMG LOTUS JUICE IS SO AMAZING? HE CAN SING, RAP, DJ, AND DANCE? WHAT A KING!!!!!"
Practice: With Whom to Dance   Sayaka 2019  
Culture by Umu Obiligbo - Best Dance Challenge By Nigeria Celebrities [Must Watch To Laugh]  
90s DANCE CLUB  BY MARTA GAMBER   via 
"It's the  Saturday Night Dance Party powered by the   auburnhops, adamsbeverageso "
" Oh you mean my dance quintet? You know, my cycle?"
      these trolls come out every 
"Modeling orgs stroll, dance orgs stroll el oh el shiiid everybody strolls now "
Beyonc literally has me putting on a sports bra to full out dance to homecoming 
Girls bring The boys OUT! I wanna dance right now /lupa lirik/
goal for 2019: learn how to dance
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Look Away by Big Country on  
 I find this astonishingly relatable. I close my blinds when I dance to music in my own apartment.
Now on Studiosounds Radio The Noisy Freaks - I Need You Back (Original Mix) Electro House Deep House Dubstep 
Anyone trynna give me some dance lessons from here to prom? 
The way the dionysus dance practice would snatch our wigs for the nth time once its released 
"She's in love with who i am back in high school, i used to bus it to the dance"
"If youre feeling stressed smoke a wood, turn on some bangers, and dance that shit out "
Im just praying that one day I dont dance till my knee pops out 
  Can't  wait!! Doing the happy dance.
" enjoy your day,,, cheol is dancing this cutie patootie dance for ya  "
"More dance steps oo while we learnt

Ain't done yet..

  

trainings
intentionalliving "
done with dance ! 
tonight Im gonna dance for you
Whats that raunchy dance yall be doing while yall twerking when you stick your cat out towards the crowd and start thrusting ?
"
.
      Not so Fast, Comrade DT ... Your BARR Song &amp; Dance Got DeBunked !!
.
                The W "
Let's go baby and dance now Make My Love Go by Jay Sean Feat. Sean Paul on  
This video of this little Yoshi doing a dance almost brought me to tears.
Youre in 6th grade at one if youre friends bday sleepovers and they start playing satisfaction on just dance .... 
"If you want your music to be heard just give niggas some two step music!!!!!!

NIGGA WE WANNA DANCE NIGGA DAMN"
"Original Pop Song TechHouse Remix Enjoy!

YouTube


Soundcloud


Pop "
 Lets dance for a life time 
why tf didnt my mom force me to dance when i was two so i could have some gd talent smh 
 / she can come dance with the turtle :P
"i just freaking love lee chan with all my heart and my soul and wow i just really love him. i love looking at him, "
"Original Dance Pop Song Dirty Electro Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud "
YESSSS SLAY THAT DANCE SIS 
Oh my fuck that dance (clears throat) 
"FREE ENTRY
Easter Sunday early evening. Come &amp; dance &amp; experience THE LOVE
bossabandits latinjazz 
romance "
     Block- but libelous comments- ur responsi 
Congratulations to these 4 athletes on punching that Ticket to the BIG DANCE! UIL STATE TOURNAMENT LOOK OUT! Also w 
I look like Beyonc when I dance Homecoming
"Original Trance Pop Song another material mIx Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud "
i wanna learn a girl crush song dance which one should i learn
 I followed her since her dance to cardi b at a high school and I was absolutely amazed to learn she 
Candyland dance in full swing! 
I wanna drink and dance all night
 KFC commercial ft Colonel Sanders and Mrs Buttersworth doing the dance from Dirty Dancing
if you didnt watch honey over and over and dance along to that damn believe song then are you really a 90s kid? 
And know all the dance moves 
   The second I saw those dance moves I knew it was you 
I loved watching The Lab during World of Dance Season 2 (they won!) so of course they were he masterminds behind th 
"D-danceDaichi said""I really wanna dance coz I didn't dance for long time""Everyone wonder why he choice this. 
"
Now playing My Father's Eyes by Eric Clapton music best hits rock pop dance on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Banana by Joyce on  
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing The House Of The Rising Sun by The Animals on 
"even though Im on the Dane team, Im really shy and nerdy and when my coach and other girls on my dance team see m "
"Motherfucker, you dont even want to get a table dance tf are you inviting me to your ranch for???? Pinch viejo codo "
"   She should scalp him, and have sll her friends do a pow wow dance around hi "
When I sing and dance with my friends I get yelled at. 
Have we decided on a line dance yet for Old Town Road?
   don't forget to upload the dance practices
 I mean you can line dance to it but I feel like Robyn or Betty Who needs to put on some chaps and pitch in
dance or sing?  sleep. 
so is this a dance spoiler or what 
 i can make it dance
I know it's last minute... Fundraiser for Kings &amp; Queens Dance Academy. Tomorrow Zumba 12:30-2pm $5 RVA Zumba 
were working on setting up just dance rn! hoping to be live around 8:30pm pst- in two hours
 Lets get that TD Artavis and you can do this dance with the victory. Im hoping you get like 6-10 TD 
 That was a loaded question. She liked things she couldn't really do now and she started listing the 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Hooked
 - MOTi Ft. Sheezan
 "
Who cares if its unusual? Dance. Sing. Wear the hat. Dye your hair. Do what you please!! Let those judgy eyes star 
do the money dance 
"14. When she turned 10, Victoria attended the Beijing Dance Academy where she learned all sorts of dance including "
" While hes at it, can he upload that dance video too "
"Please watch this cutie dance, itll brighten your day. "
" ""Thank you for showing me around babe."" She kisses her cheek softly. ""I'll pick you up at 6 for the dance/pageant."""
"  Come dance to techno, bitch. Its so roomy in here"
that bon bon chocolat tiktok dance is killing me i cant breathe
"guess my favorites 

color 
animal 
singer 
song from deh 
girl name
boy name 
dance style 
girl celeb crush 
state"
"An awesone evening of song, dance, mime, ECSU orchestra and more...The Seven Last Words "
  That is so awesome!!!! Happy dance!!!
     U rage a lot? My screen shots show nothin 
If  plays dance d amour tonight I WILL lose my mind 
"HAPPY FRIDAY!!  .50 cent drinks 8-11pm!! Cold beer, biggest dance floor and lots of good people!! Parties always at "
I just learned a boy group dance for the first time &amp; WOW THAT LOWKEY KICKED MY ASS
well dance ! 
(CLICK LINK TO LISTEN-&gt;) Now Playing: trance[]control - Atomic Dance Explosion (radio edit) 
 i'll paypal you 300 pesos if you'll dance in front of them
hi lets wear cowboy boots to wild west &amp; dance to mo bamba
The stage is set for the red carpet!   at  premiering today and will play till the 25th 
Dolphin Dance! Can manipulate gasses. Only works at night. Hides within the shoulder of its target. Range: 1m.
    luv you guys honesty between the 4th and 3rd minute of the 4th Qtr! U 
i think im gonna try sum new styles of dance .. ...
  Tks  4 the fun! A suggestion 4 Christmas- while still alive intersperse interviews w/ 
"Currently getting a lap dance from /Batgirl/. 

What a way to end the night."
I was trying to at least get my body familiarized with the dance moves to do the boy with luv challenge and the damn legs thing is hard 
i deadass never think about marriage but if I do get married found you being the first dance song is actually a goa 
"dance to this, dance to thissssss 
we can just"
"One of my favorite Tim Curry roles was Dr. Poole in Oscar. 

I also saw Rocky Horror right before The Three Muskete "
Super late to the party but lets dance! 
my niece wants to dance a huapango for her quince. SOMEONE COME GET THEIR NIECE CAUSE SHE IS NO LONGER MINE LOL
Me and my baby at the fatherdaughter dance. I love this little girl so much. My baby's not a baby anymore. 
. and The Homestead At Catasauquas Gas House Dance Hall  covering Echo and The Bunnymens 
"Ladies, birds of paradise clean their spot and do a dance to get their mate so dont settle for a man that dont cl "
Now playing One Dance by Drake!
Dance to the distortion - This one was fun 
I just wanna see chip and dale dance to old town road
"The ddd in my Snapchat username no longer stands for David Demarie Dance, it stands for Diners Drive-ins and Dives."
happy dance because the leafs scored!!!! 
Let's go baby and dance now I Wanna Go by Britney Spears on  
 I like Polish women. Are they having a dance class?
Save it for 5/5.. Gotta hit that Drippin dance  
"While Sabrina Carpenter got her big break playing Maya in Girl Meets World (she even sang on the show's ""Take On th "
"OH YESSSS SLAYYYY!!! 

he could dance better than me  "
blood on the dance floor BEWITCHED. phew
"My dad is 45 and he is trying to pursue a career in dance!  he loves your music, can he get a retweet "
trying to write a paper on stabilization wedges for climate change mitigation but wanting to dance to songs I've ne 
THE DANCE PRACTICE INDUSTRY WILL END IF DIONYSUS COMES OUT 
Hey facebook friends.... especially that Dance for All People circle!   We have a special... 
"This dance cover of ""Focus on me"" is so freaking amazing!!!
"
     This is my very favorite ever told 
 Mast dance
I say i hate drum and bass but if i see some tory cunts doing some weird ass dance too it you bet Ill fuckin jump 
"So tonight let's dance a little bit harder, till I feel like I know all the things."
 Have all your indian friends do a pow-wow dance around him
Ricky Redhead Hard Dance Part 1
"  Is that the Trumps my president dance, or the no Trump"
i wanna go out tonighttt and dance 
 I THINK HE DID A CUTE LIL DANCE BEFORE THEY PERFORMED JUST ON MY WAY
Just waiting for  to dance with Beyonce.
     And he can lawyer up. Hope u have deep po 
"When your husband tells you to get dressed up &amp; that hes made dinner reservations for you for your anniversary, yo "
"Lets take a dance class with a harsh, harsh world"
"Wait wait wait...in ELEVEN days of LivePD, we don't get a sing/rap/dance episode?! Oh, y'all. Bless your hearts. "
  And I am going to sip champagne and dance.
Happy dance....that is a lot of livepd LivePD200
LETS DO THE GHIRAHIM DANCE
 The dance I do when I needa pee
      *Shrugs* Someone takes their game serio 
"Just Slide 
Tag   
Share With Your Friends &amp; Family! 
nextkidz slide frenchmontana triller "
"Leinenkugles Summer Shandy...pick of the evening...watching game outside on my patio.
GOD BLESS AMERICA!!! and "
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
  Minho did a sexy dance on the wrong guy while Jisung filter with his gf and jeongin just g 
 Dance moms...a deep previously and shamefully locked part of my personality is rising again we need to 
Dance partners. 
Top story: City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  se 
"i can be hard to handle
dance around the house with
nothin' but the radio on

i can be such a scandal
runnin' at th "
" Doyoung used to dance with Junkyu and Dohwan in the dance crew Def Skool
 He used to be chubby when he was in 3r "
"  And I dont know why but with you Id dance, in a storm in my best dress, FEARLESS  "
"He says nothing at all, but simply stares upward into the dark sky and watches, with sad eyes, the slow dance of the infinite stars."""
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Life In The Fast Lane by Eagles on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Abacab by Genesis on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Alive &amp;40;Radio Edit&amp;41;
 - Mondotek
 "
DANCE PARTY GRRRRRR WORK  
 Happy dance.   
Earth people! Dance....
Now playing Pra-Raio by As Meninas music best hits rock pop dance on  
"Only scores once or twice a year to perform his dance moves, absolutely overrated. "
    Baseline need a hopi dance cover
    yall when you dance 
Been so long since i dance to some bachata  i miss latin nights deh man
Traditional Dance of Bali 
"The dance I do when I STOPPED GIVING A DAMN WHAT EVERYBODY ELSE THOUGHT, and watch all these blessings fall in my l "
Found my dance partner!? 
 Any chance you'll guest on So You Think You Can Dance again?
fuck yall my baby can also dance tapos fire pa ng bts fyallll! 
Always youPlssssssI Want see DoYum cover this dance omgggg  
Power BAR Womens Fitness: Hot Pole Dance Fitness That Empowers Women Nationwide 
"and finally it would end with them in the drive-in parking lot at night, doing their dance break with fancy vintage "
"Someone said I had great dance moves. I feel alive! 
"
" MORE LIKE, WHY WOULDN'T I STAN
Their songs? Lit, amazing, perfect. vIsUaLs? dAmN. Talent?! THEY ARE "
 We will continue our happy dance 
"The day that a d*sney dance party plays old town road, I can retire happily"
"Im so sad, I want to go dance "
     How obsessed are you?
i just wanna dance onstage now skksks 
I just did a whole dance routine to the first half of Homecoming in the shower while washing my hair and I got cond 
"Ive been watching dance moms for about 13 hours now, pls send help."
"NA SCRIMS OMEGALUL

""Same old song and dance""  PlaysTV"
 To top it off I came back for Sunday druncode about 2-3yrs ago and I see a totem say. I rather dance then walk LOL
Ouuu tryna dance on my man like this 
     You are very odd. You sound like some poor l 
  Bec got7 song is so messy .no one cant rap and the song is average even doe got7 vocals r good and dance well
Yes!!!! Were open tomorrow!!! See you there!!! 10am-4pm!!!! dance dancestore dancingsuppliesdepot dancewear 
 what type of dance move is this 
Just dance unlimited e the sims 4 
NCT 127 'Wakey-Wakey' Dance Practice  via 
"Get Inspired By This BYOB Performance Party With Music, Dance, Theater, and More "
Yall thought we were done this semester? Come see us at our dance showcase! We will be performing along with many 
We hope you can join us! eventplanner dance party competitiondance competition 
Beyonce's before i let go mix on repeat.... this line dance bout to hit at weddings/reunions/and for the 4th ....ya 
i miss dance
"    I like how they have dogs and protective vests. 

You never know "
i cant be the only one who has listened to stolen dance by milky chance
     Take ur own advice.
" I would suspect not, because theyre a duo, thats not their demo, and they dont dance. Plus I assume G "
  These drums always gave me goosebumps.  you should dance to this as well some day.
Now Playing on WNR: Free Energy - Dance All Night - Click to listen to WNR: 
why is the rock doing the haka dance in the hobbs &amp; shaw movie??? lmao
     U disagree w/someone &amp; u go all Nazi on t 
  When Im done with school and have my life back can I dance with yall pls 
  Noone is MJ &amp; noone is Beyonc but dont pretend that youve seen Michael Jackson in h 
 It's gonna sound like a bunch of music you can't dance to. 
Laurel &amp; Hardy dance to The Rolling Stones 
"Hey mom, we want to spend our day off of school learning a second solo for an extra dance competition. What do yo "
Then he asked our waitress to show him the dance they were talking about and she actually did 
"A never really knew that she could dance like this, she make a man wanna speak Spanish. Como se llama, Bonita, mi casa, su casa"
"Am I gonna dance or escort tonight ...
Decisions decision "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Rien Qu'une Fois by Keen'V on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Roda by Gilberto Gil on  
I want to go drink and dance tonight 
 He is too busy (Trump) doing a victory dance in the end zone to worry about Russia meddling.
"SoCal dance listings, April 21-28: Che Malambo and more  latimes california "
"SoCal dance listings, April 21-28: Che Malambo and more: Shen Yun 2019 Touring show celebrates traditional Chinese "
ok jin is fucking KILLING the dance game this era just like he did with boy in luv.... BABY IM SO PROUD OF YOU!!!!!!
"  Nvm, just remembered that I cant dance "
 That's exactly the dance I do!  Nope
I'm raising money for In Loving Memory Of Uncle Ramone. Click to Donate:   via 
"These boys give us 6 thumbs up !! Dont forget to ask us for trials and class schedules. 
ohanadance babyhiphop "
"~

among branches
of a willow tree   lights
unrecognized
   dance  furtively

to seek the sighted bliss...

~ "
The Rock always manages to get a Samoan tribal dance going in his movies
"imagine going to coachella with colby? seeing how good he looks in his outfits all weekend, watching him have fun a "
What bts dance should I learn yall 
Friday is close to the end... The weekend is coming and our engineers have their traditional dance! EDS Internatio 
iPod 5G(Apple-2007) / Dance Tonight(Paul McCartney) 
Yall dont DESERVE my dance moves .. AT ALL
Who's  zoomin who (Dance mix)Aretha franklin
  youre not good at that dance-
  you already memorized the dance?? ahskd damn I cant even memorize the fanchant
"Ill just take her hand and ask her to dance, when the band plays the right beat"
"Mukeshbhai, forget Hamleys. Take over Jet. For this act of kindness, we will forgive you for your disastrous dance "
" favorite song to dance to: Into The Groove or Vogue
favorite ballad: Take a Bow
favorite underrated "
bro why is my dance teacher hella extra tf
When the food is SO GOOD you just have to DANCE  
"Hey mom, we want to spend our day off of school learning a second solo for an extra dance competition.

What do y "
And dance like nobody's watching.
 and i get a dance
" Doobie Brothers - Listen to the Music / Long Train Runnin'
Talking Heads - The Lady Don't Mind
Men At Work "
That Beyonc homecoming remix reminds me of Brown Sugar so much I miss dance so much 
"Dance Gavin Dance React to Old Instagram Photos, Recall Their Craziest Crowd Surf Story |AP "
Ima be 80 years old still doing the Gettin to the Money dance  
"With a 6 year old daughter, our household has The Greatest Showman Soundtrack playing most days, along with inter "
"Enhanced Speed: Plue is shown to have enough speed to dance faster than one of Daphne's Lizardmen 
PunBot"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Clap
 - Charmes
 "
LEE KNOW MINI DANCE BREAK 
 is this the dance 
That HBCU dance video always brings so much joy to my heart no matter what mood Im in
"I listen to it when Im driving and I scream, speed and dance. Truly the perfect album. "
"If my mind can conceive it, and join the dance."
" First:This Guy is a metalhead AND HAD A COOL HAIR awesome.
Second impression:He MADE THAT DANCE IN PUBLIC WHAT A LEGEND ."
nat just got accidentally smacked by someone doing a fortnite dance
This Sunday we celebrate Resurrection: Through the Arts! A special performing arts mini-production featuring Godist 
Sorry but how does no one know the Saturday night dance in this club!?? I wanna be back with my MT pals doing all t 
Disappointed that the dance floor in Popworld in Swansea didn't revolve
 I hope you dance 
The highlight of my break so far is watching my parents drunk dancing at my cousins wedding and yelling I love yo 
"Wake up INDIANS and look at the ugly dance of DIDI, at the time of national festival know as ELECTIONS. "
 He also has to do a little dance during the ride. He should carry a boom box that plays only Cyndi La 
"From first recital in Macungie, PA to last recital in Suwanee, GA weve loved watching you dance Brieanne Dickson!  feeling wonderful"
     Ur looking in the mirror catching ursrlf.
Dance with the devil long enough he gonn to step on ya feet... Don't let it go over your head!!!
"  Agreed

I used to think of debates like war

Now I think of them as dance"
"SoCal dance listings, April 21-28: Che Malambo and more  downtown california "
" I really think it would take over, we havent had a line dance craze in a while and with summer on the horizon "
"Shout out to honorable mentions:
- Fallin' (my bae)
- Oi (THE bae)
- Shine Forever (underrated beauty queen)
- Alli "
I just finished watching homecoming and im in tears. She such a powerful person and she make you want to get up and 
"Jeongguk let Taehying go to work, realizing he should get ready too. He quickly showered and dressed in his usual d "
Anyone down to do a square dance circle during  at edc????
"Teaching choreo to Twerk by City Girls at Dance Dynamics in Spring, TX TOMORROW 4/20  
Register here: "
i want to cos miria and dance to romantic now :)
Check out what I just added to my closet on Poshmark: Sz 9 Sun Dance Thong Sandals  Rhinestone Accents. 
"Good night Mariah Careys music that you can dance to them!!
"
I'm so glad none of my friends know what Blood On The Dance Floor is
"Wake up INDIANS and look at the ugly dance of DIDI, at the time of national festival know as ELECTIONS. "
"Shameless plug lols
Goodmorning, subscribe naman kayo sa channel ko. I'll be doing dance covers lols. Tumatanggap d "
"Garth Brooks singing The Dance live in Minneapolis, MN. A lady holds up ...  via "
Can we as a community talk about the look Beyonc gave right before she hit that Everybody Mad choreography? She kn 
 Its a dance from Detroit from the rapper Blade Icewood. He died.
my dad just sent me a video of me in a talent show in 3rd grade and i knew NONE of the dance moves.... i am mortifi 
"Watch VAV try to dance 'THRILLA KILLA' after switching parts with one another!
 "
"My first official release - No Stops. Vocal house track, please show some love - spread the groove housemusic "
   Earlier poster has since deleted their tweets where they complained about a 
I really want bts to do a relay dance but I think we all know that they about to clown around instead of actually 
Dance-rock was invented by some lunatics who probably couldn't feel their ankle
"""rum dance man
Raggaman yes it's a raggaman jump
People drinking champagne up"""
I need to be at somebodys party or something. Im in the mood to dance on someone 
Billie Eilish - Ocean Eyes (Dance Performance Video)  via 
Going to  to support my bud djflytronic gunna dance dance dance!! 
" They have sent one of those, as well as a naked Bobbi D'Antoni doing the wrecking ball dance.... "
"I just want to go out, drink, dance (whinin) and come home to my man."
Congrats to the 2019-2020 WHS Eagle Dance Team! 
 Flawless  I get to have a dance party every day
"Something I think about a lot is that Beyonc can dance the way she does and has absolutely done so, in front of th "
man... why'd I have to be the weird edgy black kid. In another universe I would've loved to be on a dance team 
"SLOWDANCE aesthetic thread:

ProtectYUchun 

1. Slow Dance "
Watching the dancers perform making me feel sweaty because my brain is telling me to dance 
"Like a flower petal in the breeze
Bend with me, sway with ease
When we dance you have a way with me
Stay with me, s "
"A special dance, my lord?"
I made the mistake of admitting idk how to dance Mexican music to my bfs nieces and they all started yelling tellin 
 Imagine if a WR did a TD dance and the next series the CB took out his knees.  That would be considered 
"Got to shake the crazies out with a dance or two.
Buy the way they do dance in Heaven, sorry if that
pisses you off "
 Elizabeth Warren would have a better chance at making it rain doing a rain dance than impeaching our president!
Dance in the sky!
An annoying thing in any piece of film/tv is the white guy saying ahhh nahh I dont dance. Only to be convinced to 
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  dancehall dancehalllink reggaemusic reggae JSO
"For me it's Speechless. 

I would've liked the video to be a dance video (bare with me)... Like a ballet/modern dan "
"  Its a new soundtrack, we cant wait to dance to the beat!!!  Taylorswift1week "
tickets purchased and back to rehearsal this week! time to get essited for my first international dance tour with parangal in greece!!
"  The word ""impeachment"" is proper and just. Don't dance around it, be bold and seize the day."
I want a video for Before I Let Go with HBCU bands and dance teams marchinh and throwing counts at a stadium. Then 
"  Lovin&amp;S  

Lovin&amp;S Info


New Ameblo Up

Real Sister
Synchro Dance
Performance Unit Idol "
5yr old wanted to a dance craft party - this is all I could think of. She still enjoyed it! ictensw ozcschat 
     Tske ur oen advice- I dont like u harras 
        
 Get our N check out the beautiful pink moon tonight!! Lets all dance!! 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : 2012 
 - Ravitez +  Afrojack
 "
His cute lil dance I'm soft 
"It's anoter hot groove, it's: I Just Wanna Dance With You by STARPOINT on your 100% FUNK Station
 You can buy this "
" -ned it for a while, did the whole ""Nahh, that's cool, but that's not me"" dance for a bit, but when I "
"It's April 19, 2019 at 09:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Turn! Turn! Turn! by The Byrds on  
"  Lovin&amp;S  

Lovin&amp;S Info


New Ameblo Up

Real Sister
Synchro Dance
Performance Unit Idol "
"9. a song u can dance to
i tried to learn the actual dance to this last year but i gave up  its still a banger "
 Mi tri to dance up on ju 
"Friday Night Dance Party! 11:45pm - 12:15am CST!

Join us in Town and chat, hangout with other CK players, earn you "
That dance then bucket by Tatum 3 min into the first holy helllll. Beauty
NowPlaying Billy Bland - Let The Little Girl Dance On Atlantic Radio Uk Hits
" I have to dance break right now, like right now!!"
"O HOSEOK FRITANDO COM DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY EU QUE PEDI SIM BUCETA TWICE ENTHUSIASM BUCETA 
"
"Van Halen - ""Dance The Night Away"" (Official Music Video)  via "
"""through heaven's eyes"" from the prince of egypt soundtrack always make me want to dance! it's so good! i cry!"
no one will ever see me dance to fake love its so sacred
I Miss her! music musicismylife dancemusic electronicdancemusic trapmusic futurebass sexy trap pop edm 
"Not done. Next, live right now on  in ForzaHorizon4 is the great  Awesome to talk to about a "
"Not gonna lie, Fall Camp sounds way better than Summer. Lower heat, fewer bugs and a sick end of season Halloween dance! TheLastDriveIn"
" so. To ""Square Up."" To ""Dance."" Logical progression, Square Dance."
  Dance for it! 
"Nobody:

90's dance DJ: Time is Eternal"
"NoeL Mode Expansion Pop/R&amp;B Song Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
" Im a Boomer, just a few years younger than Billo. I dance my way through ever concert I go to, and it ha "
"Lollipoppin' (Poppin') , twerkin' in some J's (Ooh)
On the dance floor (Uh-huh)
No panties in the way (Nope) "
"dont need to be a borta, I jaust wana dance haha "
Come dance with us and LASO next Friday 4/26!  
I got the new dance  hope Im in ur new vid 
Only 18 hours to go before my first Dance music show on  trancemusic dance house EDM jungle 
Watch! beyonce netflix music dance queen homecoming feeling choreography woman power love coachella  
 Weird question.. is it the same owner as Crazy Horse 3? If so I use to work for him in MA at Centerfo 
i cant dance for the life of me but this..... aint it 
can bts please go to millennium dance complex 
"Original Dance Pop Song Under-Ground Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud "
 rosaclara oh to have my hands in all that tulle such fun to be had. So jealous of brides who get to 
"Tonight, I dance for Zuko "
 Lmao our new line dance
"Original Trance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
"4 you black people who act white still looking 4 validation...this dance 4 you!!
BeYaself  BeTrue2You "
  nOW ALL WE NEED IS AN AU WHERE THEY SLOW DANCE TO BOSSA NOVA IN THE KITCHEN @ 3AM WITH MINH 
  This tweet lowered my opinion of you.
"Another night out, another dance floor"
This past mentorship session exposed mentees to different tools used in dance expression. A wonderful session with 
Honored to dance with our son Remo 
"What do you like to do for fun? When I'm not studying, I like to dance! It's nice to have things you like!"
  we culd just dance 2this
"I've seen like 5 different posts on my tl today of the Solange and Beyonce dance, please don't stop"
 SNAPPED WITH THIS RECORD! I WANNA DANCE!!!!
  She giving daddy a lap dance? 
"HONK HONK HONK HONK!!!
*turns off pomodoro timer*

and now 5 minute dance party 

now please stop, get back to work"
"   Yup.  This.  
Sing like no one's listening, Jeff.
Laugh like no one w "
Can we get the Plan B dance fro IASIP as an emote? Other players might be able to join in to complete the full rout 
Chris Brown can beat anyone in a dance battle
"acid android
let's dance
 "
New post: Swag Flow  Instrumental Hip Hop  Dance Prod by. F Once Ft. Tower Beatz 
 Where do I apply to date you so you can have a shower dance party?
.  Happy Dance: CBO: More than 1 million people have lost insurance under Trump 
 I get viral off my dance moves not my actual relevant tweets 
 i WISH i knew that dance
"Listen to Fresh Tropical Music, She Come, from Eempey Slicker &amp; Wildfire.   

 "
"Every generation, according to the 5th line of the 11th paragraph on page 401 of volume 984 the gay Cutflower must dance"
"Original Mix Of The feat NoeL Singles
Playlist Soundcloud Edition Enjoy! 

Soundcloud
 "
  Its a new dance trend called the woah i believe
        
 I only know the songs cause of stage crew and i heard it over and over again fbejwkdkjfnfn I know som 
"Original Mix Of The feat NoeL Singles
Playlist Youtube Edition Enjoy!

Youtube


Song "
"My Daughter is the type of woman that is going to pick her own 50th anniversary song....But the Kenny Rogers ""Throu "
We as a nation need a dance everyone knows besides the electric slide.
Ready for the spring flingdance  
I had my school night dance yesterday and it was A MeSS 
I just wanna hold a beer and dance this pain away from my system
did yall ever watch dance 360??
     Many screen shots taken -ouch!
"Friends, Fun, Beach, Food, Dance 
liveyourdreamsnow 
sweetmemories  at Avila Beach Farmers Market "
  Me not focusing on the dance but damn daddy why such long....leg
Has your fave headlined Coachella? landed a 3 movie deal w/ Netflix? Or even remotely had the work ethic and dedica 
Congratulations  Livepd200 episode tonight.    looking snazzy in those suits 
 10/10 would give lap dance
"Kay so in my playlist, I had a mix of  and  songs. Let Go had just finished and I was all in "
im at a family party and my cousin does irish dance and she just pulled out her dads phone and started dancing
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Ritmo Do Meu Flow &amp;40;LatinVillage 2019 Anthem&amp;41;
 - D-Rashid Ft. F1rstman, Flow 22 
 "
Watching this church litergical dance just seems so boring and basic after watching Homecoming
"What a powerful praise from our dance ministry earlier this evening! 

praisedance praiseandworship "
    If he gave a single DIME to something- he would brag abou 
 he came out the gate snappin  how you gonna start the dance like that
"  I believe she was on the show, just not in these highly tuned dance numbers."
Lil Baby X Gunna - Drip Too Hard (Official Dance Video)  via  go take a look 
     It takes two to dance.  Sherry you are a willing participant.
     Better hv proof other than fske news cos u can be sued.
 that dance break....ur right
i wish i could act or dance smh
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Blame by Calvin Harris on  
 The fun but serious moves on the Dance Floor!
Light drinking and new folding dance  via  new video
 yea its a dance trend dbbddb
I miss dance so much bc of my body
"Click &amp; Read: Dance Mfr, Dance!  dancetherapy dancing darkwave gothic mixtape"
 I love the dance these things do when they finish their extraction cycle.
OutOfTheCrypt and into a dance party 
that wasn't a rumor. him saying that olivia's dance was sensual IS creepy
The royal family dance crew needs a reality show
okay latino army but whos down to dance el caballo dorado outside rosebowl on cinco de mayo?! 
     Not if its libelous u cant.
Whos doing a praise dance tonight ZbadboyZ19
 When nobody wants to dance with you at prom 
 RM the way you dance like you are drinking wine it's so..... Beautiful omg
 Ill sit at the symphony.  Ill stand and dance at a rock concert.  Enjoy Life.
NowPlaying I Wanna Dance by Whitney Houston on UrbanRadio Greatest Hits R&amp;B 
IIIIIII WANNA DANCE WITH SOMEBODY I WANNA FEEL THE HEAT WITH SOMEBODY IIIII WANNA DANCE WITH SOMEBODY SOMEBODY WHO LOVES ME
Crystal ass round here screaming at the Beyonc documentary  like she at the concert dance moves and all yall
HWIYOUNGS LITTLE DANCE IM ON TEARS
    Its getting hot in here so take off all your clothes..... j 
"if fancy will give us LOA vibes then i better get a momo dance break that will top her loa's
 "
 Dance your way to the bank shittttt
 and the dance
" Dude, Ilovebeer could be a song someone does there first dance to at a  wedding.....youre hitting e "
" buuuuttt, id rather hear only pop songs than only dance remixes."
IS THAT THEIR NEW DANCE MOVE OR IS SHE SCAMMING US?   
So proud of our girls tonight! So thankful for  couldnt think of a better person to have a dance team with 
" Aww, you did well Seokjinie Oppa! 
you did your best, you worked hard! 
your voice was awesome, and your d "
" Hello, how are you guys? I hope you're well. I usually do instrumental dance music and i wonder if "
"japanese hiphop 

japanese bboying

japanese culture

japanizm

vagarytrip 
emotion
art 
artwork
bboy "
Thrilled to see UTD RANGAM traditional Indian competitive dance team perform their Spring show. 
"Dance, dance, baby
Thug love, crazy
Eu quero OG Kush e Haze
Drug loves e ladie
Muito sexo e bases..."
just a little cover dance video I had to made... thanks a lot  for clothing and studio.. and thanks 
" Dear JK,
Your performance is truly great !!!
I always love your voice and dance!!!
Facial expression is al "
 I think that will happen.  ETH too busy doing dance offs while all other smart contract platforms are buil 
"...I wonder if it's gonna dance like the one in ""Dancing Eyes""."
. and The Homestead ripping country-flavored rock  think   at Catasauquas Gas House D 
     She doesn't have a block button? That's a simple way to fix things.
Hopefully Ill give you a dance
"normal teens: socialise w/ friends, do things they shouldn't be doing, getting their ""beauty sleep""

me: doing the "
I jus may record myself dancing to this I forget I can dance. Lmao
 Coke head negro that can dance/sing but is VERY toxic in relationships
  So what if he handsome is that mean ppl only see this no there are ppl just as ha 
I got so excited about all the earthworms in the rain last night that i did a dance and then picked up the biggest 
"New Music 4 y'all!!! NEWMUSICFRIDAY music
soundcloud HipHop MinkCoat listen dance NewStyle ALLBARSNOMUMBLE "
"  Those were the days, my friend. 
We thought they'd never end.
We'd sing and dance "
[DC] 20140125 STARNE1 (Dance Cover 2NE1) - 'Clap Your Hands' At Winter Code: kpoptv 2ne1  via youtube
 You Alex what did you do? Whats with all the red smoke?  You arent planning on challenging the guys 
" This is the sweetest thing I've seen in a while!
I love when the puppers do the Add Dance."
  Glad you actually got the confidence to get out on the dance floor!!!
 i dont dance now i make money moves :/
     Brian is a public figure. We can say whatev 
"""boy with luv chorography is too easy""
I wonder why . Dionysus getting his ass beat by this dance "
So yall telling me les twins dont dance like Fabo
The no collusion dance. 
First dance song with  at that whole wedding thing was Like Jesus Does. Hasnt been on any  set 
  how else we supposed to dance tay
   You mean its not fish under the sea dance?
"Taeyong  as BTS

 POPULAR 
 dedicated fandom okayy 
 choreos/dance on point 
 hiphop focused but do pop w "
Typical straight boy behaviour to call you ugly after not wanting to dance with him hahahahhahahah
i met this mf irl and he didn't dance for me. scam. 
I hope after this reply jingo girls in     stop their Nagin dance on Sadhvi Pragy 
I wanna dance
Whoaaaa!!!   Easter Weekend...And Fridayyy!!??...You Better Do Your Fridayy Danc 
BRAND NEW DANCE VIDEO Carta &amp; NICKTHEREAL - Savage DANCE VIDEO 
" ERIC,  YOUR FATHER IS READY TO DECLARE AGAIN BANKRUPTCY, HE DID DANCE IN SAUDI ARABIA TO PROVE THAT HE "
I NEVER (and I cant stress this enough) NEVERR get tired of watching lisa dance swalla
"Dance with your last breath for God 
PraiseAwaken PraiseAwaken SoundOfHeaven praise worship TriumphantVoice"
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np On The Beach by Chris Rea on  
yoooo the party was amazing my cousins ins and i stan the same groups so it was so fun to dance with them and all 
I Miss her  music musicismylife dancemusic electronicdancemusic trapmusic futurebass sexy trap pop edm 
 CLASSIC Spring Dance Concert closing night! NicolasDance NicolasPride Community Collaboration 
" Love to both of you. I remember being so nervous, know my folks were too. 

However, I managed to "
  Yoooo I just realized these the same niggas that was having that you got served dance battle 
Man One Dance is complete flames dawg
"close your eyes, dance with me "
 you when i pull out the kpop dance challenge 
  I will dont understand sitting at a rock concert. And getting yelled at for enjoying 
nn i learnt this dance yesterday but watching this made me realise how shit i am I- 
Huron 'Beltane' Fire Dance by Loreena McKennitt. The UltraSonic Gin &amp; Tonic at 8:08pm.
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Korpus 9 Radio Episode 001 by Kwazalski Listen again or download  
You guys... Im listening to DANCE WITH ME on audio. Kirsten Leigh and Lee Samuels knocked it out of the park!! 
" Honestly I'd give my soul for a piano, rap and/or producing lesson from the rap line 
Or dance lessons from Hobi, ayyyyyy"
It was a beautiful day for a brunch dance party!   
"If anyone saw how I dance around my kitchen while I drink wine, make pasta, and listen to the CHICAGO soundtrack, t "
"     He wrote a book? What was it? ""How to Scam "
"mark my words now, I WILL dance with Beyonc one day. "
"In chapter 86 of the manga 'Sket Dance', a reference to Hilda was made. When Himeko was dressed as a maid, her frie "
Chelitas time 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : I Want Your Soul
 - Sleepy Tom
 "
Carta &amp; NICKTHEREAL - Savage DANCE VIDEO  via 
Its not church until a couple of grown people have a dance off in the middle of the alter
 Since when did farsi wans cant do their traditional dance? Like wth is good with yall
"Final warm-up party tonight on the Hotel Congress Plaza! Im playing for the first time in a month. 

Come dance &amp; "
Who is ready for Batman to dance on a table in a questionable way? letsstream BadIdeathethoughtfulthief
My mom and tia are drunk forcing me dance bachata. A night mare a literally nightmare.
imagine Sam starting with just a piano and his vocals. Then Normani does this wonderful transition and starts singi 
"Catching up on  ... not sure who BTS is, but these girls can dance"
"Im seeing everything from some rancid Nikes, to kitten heels all cutting rug on the dance floor to 90s trance music "
The catchiest song Ive heard in awhile. Line dance approved for sure  
  I hope whoever invented the school dance is rotting in hell.
"Now Dance I Said! 
Clubtime live right now!
 "
"I want to dance! Tonight i'll give a party! .... No, i'm kidding! oUo"
I think we are overdue for a TeamTallandNotSoSmall dance reunion! My favorite duo from Season 13  
"WARRIOR JPN ver. Dance
"
" Do they dance to ""the wiggle's hate each other in real life""?"
"Todays Saturday Morning Triple Shot: 
Luther Vandross 
Never Too Much (1981) from The Album Never Too Much 
P "
Power BAR Womens Fitness: Hot Pole Dance Fitness That Empowers Women Nationwide 
"han jisung is the most talented singer and he can do rap, sing and dance."
     Shut up. Go take a nap.
 Only coming for the dance moves
Warren and those Arab idiots are doing their war dance again. Woo woo woo!
" yeah, its not that hard to dance to choreography and talk on stage because your fav damn sure doesnt sing."
Im in this dance concert crying. Art is powerful asf.
You want to dance later? 
My german prof told us that there is this rule in Germany which bans anyone from dance in pubs/public areas on Good Friday lmao
"Countless silver moons
Lived under a veil
Difficult to breathe
Keeping my skin pale
Life challenged(as it does)
I "
just rediscovered selenas stars dance album and i am very happy rn
      We dont have these dravida idiots i 
When you have nothing to do between shifts so you invade the office and dance to the new  music. 
I'm gonna default dance on your grave first 
I solemnly swear not to drop my glass drink on the dance floor this year @ Renaissance Event Hall 
"  That's a fair point. It's also early days. With the additional savings XRP provides, t "
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Korpus 9 Radio Episode 001 by Kwazalski Listen again or download  
 It is and dance party Thursdays at 3
Dance to this beat
Now playing Pescaria (Canoeiro) by Gal Costa music best hits rock pop dance on  
on a dance practice binge and just looking  at the amt of views the boss one has...never wanted to [redacted.] [r 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Easy (Radio Edit) by Mat Zo &amp; Porter Robinson on 
  Like hes going to the enchantment under the sea dance or some other rhythmical teen ritual
Spending the weekend getting my blends up because next weekend we are throwing a party with the actual GOAT 
I want to see Susan Collins and Mitt Romney do an interpretive dance in response to the Mueller Report. Together.
Our king of dance yall.... 
"AlohaVance
Its another warm day: )
Lets Rock

Todays Triple Shot:
Happy Birthday, 
Luther Vandross
1:Never T "
"     



theunicorndj DjQLynn love queen Music Beats dance dancehall soca "
" You are so dear. I could munch on one if I wanted to, I am just trying to keep away from sweets at the momen "
Time for some Just Dance followed by co-stream with Littlepumpkin playing Overcooked 2! Come hang tonight!! 
Agora na Melody 94.1: CHARO - DANCE A LITTLE BIT CLOSE ( EDIT )
   I got some great dance moves 
You already know I bought the most dope skin and dance with the most dope item shop code  
 India and Pakistan have been doing this dance for years. They are all related. Do think for a moment t 
 And VERY FEW members of Congress will even CONSIDER it. The Democrats won't because most of them are s 
Hope euphoria can slow dance
" I'm 34, my daughter is 9 and we both love BTS. My daughter can actually sing all their songs flawl "
  Liverpool winning what exactly Jose has won more trophies at Utd than Kloop at Liverpool. Pogba and 
Now taking suggestions for first dance songs thanksss 
Midnight just dance session 
i know that i ain't that big but i'll do this next time there's a school dance 
girls dance sooooooo much better then blokes
REC-FM: [21:07] NOW PLAYING: Don Henley -  All She Wants To Do Is Dance ~ 18 listeners
"CoHeir Media - Let's Dance
""Bringing Back REAL MUSIC...one memory at a time!"""
"Friday Night Dance Party Zumba Style

Much needed after a lonnnng week*

Great class
Always good energy  at Crunch "
  I agree - BNB gets shit done they build and execute.  ETH been fluffing around with casp 
Duality wrapped in one. Have you seen a Victory Song dance in a cute way? 
"Me to my kids while watching Homecoming: ""I could be Beyonce if I could sing or dance and ...""6yo scrunching up his "
"Whatever song, whatever beat, your heart never fails to dance with it. Whenever you dance, your soul seems like it "
"""I thinkto give. In the best way I can, through song and through dance and through music. I mean, I am committed t "
 dance for me
Im sorry but this is me and you when we dance at wills even if we arent drunk  
Fight fuck around and pretend I can dance and choreograph some of home . . .
"  This part shocks me. Actually my Perth maybe not good at sing and dance,but he have talent in "
white people culture is dancing to cupid shuffle &amp; cha cha slide at every high school dance literally ever
       Here is me and m 
The most ICONIC HBCU dance video. I still see this on my ig TL.  
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Kiss Me Thru The Phone by DJ Chuck T on 
Lied about not wanting to go out and slept for 4 hours now I wanna go out to dance but Im fucking broke
rock pop dance classic hits now: Life Problem by Brutal Knights on  
  SAME HERE AHHHHH damn seeing bts gonna kill me too cause Ive been with them since debut 
Best rock pop dance music Now Charlie Brown by Benito Di Paula on  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Bittersweet
 - Nicky Romero Ft. Trilane, Kokaholla
 "
"life is TOO short
kiss them
tell them 
love them 
walk away from them
move on
wear that
eat this
travel there
move "
"FREE BOOK GIVEAWAY! Urban Thriller, Devil Winds Dance. Free on ibooks store with code: 3XTN646F76XL Expires on 5/17 "
"All you have to do is dance all night
Shake it till the morning light1-2-3 BAWDIES"
 $23 trillion in debt and she wants to dance around a fire.
 I love to dance whenever I can. But don't we all?
"Friend: Hey Jes, you like male strippers?
Me: F*ck yes! I love donating to a working man's college fund!
Also me ge "
Now! Who can most elegantly dance with their Pokmon in Hoenn? Show me right here and now!
last night during trivia im pretty sure everyone thought i was crazy because i was on a team by myself and would d 
do u ever dance with ur thumbs like sometimes if im listening to music whilst im on my phone i do a little thumb dab when the beat drops
"After the end of a thrilling tropical dance jam, Calypso Rose just declared, as if slaying Beyonce herself,  NOW I "
"lol they dance together (again) 
HeIsPsychometric "
and then i'm fucked because i won't be able to practice the choreo before my dance recording fucK.
May we build bridges instead of walls. May we ask each other questions instead of assuming the answers. May we resp 
What Is This? Chick Does A Dance In Which It Looks Like She Sucking Multiple D*cks! -  via 
I remember watching and dancing to this episode as a toddler with my Daddy and us both doing the Robot....Kinda lik 
"No idea why he decided to dance right there  GG!
Fortnite XboxShare dancing goodgamemate "
"Reposted from   -  Trade Fair Youth Day 2019... Brought To You By gamchamber &amp; yepgambia 
Featuring A "
killer dance break time
 Whens the dance off ?
Who's ready to dance? It's party time !!  Philosophy Friday !! $10 Beer &amp; Shot Special // Long week? ... 
"Now dance fucker dance, man he never had a chance"
  Oh shit! Best check that its on my dance list
NW: Driven to Dance 
"Haddaway - What Is Love (1993)

 DANCE "
" I bet that you look good on the dance floor
I don't know if your looking for romance or
I don't know what you're "
" The dance, I tried to check tutorials to learn but all I managed is to hit myself in the face"
"Konyak Tribe women set a world record for the ""Largest Traditional Konyak Dance"", watch the video to know more abou "
"Who's ready to laugh, sing, and dance the night away at Dueling Pianos!  Things are just getting underway, so get y "
i would say ive watched the dance scene in the very beginning like 200 times at my friends house.  wed always try 
" It has a nice best, but I can't dance to it. I give it a 74."
   True. Im into them all! Have ever seen Whitney dance? Very amusing! 
"Hanbin antis/haters are starting early this morning again.
For your satisfaction, Hanbin is the worst dancer among "
 gave this serious thought last night as i t witnessed this new age f**kery esp wit deez ppl dat feel d 
 War only interested him in the fact that it could be profitable. More so if you never truly chose a 
" Dance: Oh....

Music: ....did someone get Blossom???

Lyric: ......"
he really deserves to win even tho he literally can't dance and probably can't sing but i'm sure he will improve an 
After watching  Snapchat storys every time I hear Bad Guy by Billie Eillish I think of his Coachella outfit revel dance.
  Dance your blox off and the baby is free in the game and you are allowed the ice skating moves choices
  I need to dance my rump off in Kendras upstairs bathroom mirror
"I didnt know I had it in high school, but it caused a lot of problems. Including bouts of depression, weight gain "
I swear to God it isn't fair that I have shitty co ordination when it comes to choreographed dance... like I'm list 
freshtune newmusicvideo vibesaftermusic New video : Cage The Elephant - Dance Dance (Audio) 
 The thriller dance 
     Stop harrassing them. Back off.
  You are following people who offend you and then get mad because you're offended.  It's lik 
 I'm a huge Stevie fan. I saw her live with Fleetwood Mac on the Dance Tour. I was second row center st 
OLD TOWN ROAD - Lil Nas X ft Billy Ray Cyrus Dance | Matt Steffanina &amp; Josh Killacky 
ME TAKING A SHOWER AFTER A LONG DAY OF DANCE 
BTS @ millennium dance challenge.... pending
Dance Dance Revolution with ITSUMI
"    I love when the left try talking about how educated they are. 

Majorin "
Excited to share the latest addition to my etsy shop: Peacock Feather Chandelier Earrings \ Golden and Patina  Ear 
"watching a scene where Alec cooks Magnus food and then they dance together, is the kind of lgbt representation I wa "
"Thanks to everyone that joined my streams today and yesterday!!

I'll be back on Sunday with some more Just Dance! "
"hoseok, the god of dance,"
"He didnt know or liked to dance, but he only did it because it was with me until it wasnt"
"Florence + The Machine - Shake It Out  via 

Its hard to dance with the devil on y "
"FREE BOOK GIVEAWAY! Urban Thriller, Devil Winds Dance. Free on ibooks store with code: 3XTN646F76XL Expires on 5/17 "
"Watch this dance for  HOME , I really enjoyed it  "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Stomp by The Brothers Johnson on  
"Party is over, though I still wanted to dance"
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music: Alison Wonderland is one of the reigning queens o 
" Indeed, that one makes me dance. "
"Dance to Miroh song, I actually not used to dance this song alone since the members always completes it but then Il "
" Love, love, love Sugu! Fans like to hate on the Fairy Dance Arc, but I love AOL"
This urban thriller is frightening and captivating with lots of twists and turns. DevilWindsDance urbanthriller 
Yeeees...Zumba Tomorrow/Saturday 10:30am at the Benfield Sportscenter $7 drop in..come out..come dance!   
"Cage the Elephant      Fall Out Boy
                          
                          Dance Dance"
i was told to do this but please dont clown me i dont dance and saw the choreography twice djdjdj (pt 1) 
Im upstairs trying to dance with Beyonce now it feel like Im having contractions 
 LIVE PODCAST: SHOW 658 - ITS LIVE NOW! ITS CLUBTIME! YOUR FRIDAY NITE DANCE PARTY ON 108.3 WGKS RADIO on 
 first touchdown dance  pass from   oaklandversion 
  im set to dance my pants off this summer
the way my school is holding their sk cultural night and theyre deadass doing a dance to likey....
I didnt just come here to FUCKING dance!!!!!! - Angry Rae Jepsen
  no dance with me only
I was too drunk last night to be dancing bachata  but I love to dance  
Happy dance 
You hit them with I wanna dance with somebody and then Ghost town djs My Boo to let them know you didnt come t 
"If the whole world was watching
I'd still dance with you"
"My Daughter is only going to only marry once and she will dance to Kenny Rogers ""Through The Years"" at her 50th wed "
"Catch The Vibes Mon-Fri 9p takeover Mixx hosted by your favorite ya dig. 
thisisnewyorkcity afrojack bx ghana "
Let's go baby and dance now Looking For Love (Featuring Fenja) by Nilson &amp; The 8th Note on  
Moves like Jagger: Micks partner debuts Stones-themed dance  
YEEEAAAHH ive been watching you alll night theres something in you eyes say CMOM CMOM and dance with me babyyyyyy
if u cant dance like an idiot in public with ur friends sry but u need new friends
You know that chick that used to dance a lot?
The Beach Boys - Do You Wanna Dance
        
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Cassius 1999 by Cassius on  
"If y'all wanted to know what Rhen is like, he's basically a blond prep who looks like he's into pop, electronica, a "
all I want is for someone to get wine drunk with and dance around the kitchen while blasting our favorite music together
mama was curious about blackpink so she asked me that she wants to watch them perform so I showed her blackpink's k 
" bb :(( if youre tired sleep its okay 

despite his skill and overall knowledge of his surrounding "
     Have u seen his books?Are u posting libel 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Answerphone 
 - Banx + Ranx + Ella Eyre Ft. Yxng Bane
 "
" They build nests (houses), they spend hours keeping things clean and tidy to impress their mate, they "
"I want to watch my Switch bbys dance ; _ ;! please announce the bluray soon, I'm dying while waiting to see them glow &lt;\3"
Best rock pop dance music Now Looking For Love by Karen Ramirez on  
 Last dance-bigbang
"I mean the man could sing, dance, act, play the piano, and was hecking cute"
  i wanna dance bachata wit edwin 
any toesucking himbos on the dance floor tonight
 IM SORRY I LOVE THE JOJO TORTURE DANCE
Different kind of Cowboy Hhah disco villagePerson cowboy ymca glitterwall machoman stache scruff singer 
"Stop trynna fuck wit them hats off, like when Bobby Shumurder dance"
"Let's go ! Come on,Nirvash ! Let's dance ! - Eureka Bot"
Last dance of the year.  Superheroes... 
"Make sure to follow vstplugtalkk they got the plugins you need 

saiditselmoonthebeat elmoonthebeat EOTB "
Now playing Over My Shoulder by Mike + The Mechanics music best hits rock pop dance on  
 Unseasoned dance
the fact that were never getting a dionysus dance practice... this is homophobia
Britney Spears has been in a conservatorship for the last 11 years. Made to sing and dance and meet people while sh 
Like if you want to dance to baby boy by Kevin abstract in my room with me please
"Sup twitterverse - bout to see Mike Mains @ The Loving Touch  
Goal for the evening: Jasons gonna dance"
Gregori High School Dance show at Modesto High School Auditorium.  Was the master electrician and programmed the li 
"Annyeong Haseyo ^.^ We are PEPERO CLC dance cover from Jakarta ""."" please give a lot support for us :) Kamsahamnida &gt;,&lt; ~Sorn"
"And then he presents his report, like, Bill, its not good.

Billy Barr does his best to dance around on camera a "
ME EVERYTIME I DANCE TO FIREBALL AND GET DEJECTED 
"Chai, old age, we cant dance in club again, we have turn to sugar daddy "
   If silky needs to get a dance routine changed for her and Yvie can fini 
"If you say you dont blare music and dance in front of the mirror like its a damn concert for yourself, youre a damn liar"
 my latina side will come out of me and edwin dance to this song
"Dance as if somebody's watching, 'cause they are"
"NowPlaying  LIVE dance DJSet in WDP362 
On  Radio NewYork
Tune In Here  "
i bought my best friend and i tickets to global dance for her birthday and i cant wait to give her the perfect wee 
"Because sometimes a moment of emotion and artistry is more meaningful than another acrobatic trick. 

Can you spot "
live When I'm With U (ft. Maia Wright) by Tritonal music  radio onair dance
"Original Trance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
NowPlaying David Byrne - Dance On Vaseline
"i want to see hobi, jimin and jungkook dance this choreography more than i want new clothes 
 "
 Hay Bro Kan U Gift Me Default Dance Plz
"Tehehe! But if I become the center, then I could dance to my fullest without worrying about the spacing~"
" Wanted to watch a game, ya, doin my rain dance"
Now Playing: Sheila E. - The Belle Of St. Mark [Dance Remix] | 80s disco funk radio nowplaying  |  [[[[[   TUN 
This dance workout is based on a traditional Afro Brazilian dance usually performed during festivals in a circle 
stg some of my friends can't dance
I wanna dance with you right now 
"Original Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
"May the 4th come join TheBarkSide at 

WATCH THE VIDEO :  "
We love the new track SUGAR by  +   playing in stores everywhere VIA  
 Idk why this look reminded me of astros hide and seek dance practice
"Try my youtube pianotutorial 
Dance of the Hours (La Gioconda)

Up for the challenge? piano"
"Burnin' up in the place tonight
And the brothers singing loud (and were feelin' right)
Get up and dance (don't try "
apparently i only know the baptist church clap dance
"""The only way to make sense out of change is to plunge into it, move with it, and join the dance."" - Alan Watts "
"Meet Daina, one of our amazing Momni moms from Lakewood Township, New Jersey! ""In our home we dont use electronic "
"BTS On Their New Album, Reveals Who Has The Best Dance Moves &amp; More | TI...  via  

"
yeah yeah take 900 each but dont forget to do a sexy dance before you leave :)
"Original Pop Song Euro Dance Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
I love seeing peoples awesome drunk dance moves 
"Time to Dance! Hip hop head nodding, 70s modern soul, B Boy floor moves, classic acid house, modern funk 70s danc "
"sup
THAT ARCEUS BETTER NOT BE SWORDS DANCE EXTREMESPEED"
TONIGHT! MORRISSEY + THE SMITHS Night {Underground} DTLA 2 Floor Blowout CALL/TEXT YOUR FRIENDS &amp; GO UNDERGROUND! 
"Saturday, April 20th 7 pm in Whirlow's- ""Gitanos"" will be live on stage- Great Dance Band!! Come have dinner, beer "
"Learn to dance the Salsa!
Tomorrow! April 20th  
 presents SALSA FUEGO

Doors at 10:00pm

Ge "
NOW: the new mini-album from  Be prepared to dance! 
 KARAOKE NIGHT starts NOW in our Grand Prairie location.. Come join us! Dance Floor is Up in Grand Prairie to Sing 
"Big thanks to  for adding  track ""Right Now (GATTSO Remix)"" to the Dance Rising playlist  "
"You can license ""We Have Liftoff"" for your next project here -  royaltyfreemusic "
"Check out ""Uplifting Dance Action - minus lead melody"" - background music for videos &amp; media - "
"Original Pop Song House Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud


Pop "
"Today's Dance YouTube Video NOTD, Felix Jaehn &amp; Captain Cuts's So Close (feat. Georgia Ku) "
"Today I won a Hernia. 
Don't push too hard my friends, I though I was in good shape.

Landscaping is hard guys but "
"Dance is fun, social, active and brings people together. With Dance, it is possible to work out and stay fit without trying!  "
Learn how Texas-based startup  used deeplearning + GPUs to help NBA player  the 
"Chinese woman shows off tongue dance
"
"Dance In The Dark

Yo &amp; I

Always Remember Us This Way

-her top 3 -"
" ""hold my hand"" is a song for the gays, you cannot change my mind. a dance in the kitchen typa song"
  Completely understand. I have the exact same feelings about Teenage Dirtbag and the Humpty Dance.
Happy to join the Suffolk Manor Residents Association's Easter Celebration which included a special performance by 
 Ladies and Gentlemen - A Tap Dance.
Taeyeon unnie is so adorable. She is so randomly cute with her PUBG acting and dance in her latest vlog. hahaha so 
 Bruh dance will have yo ass snatched
"Original Dance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
"  if i could ever get my ns to not grow a leg and turn to ms... geez
*starting and N dance* "
Soooo fun. I need dance classes. I need another wedding. We need to bring this back 
"I got bands fr, diamonds on me they dance fr"
 this how you dance at the club  
No shade or anything but ive seen some of yalls quinceaera videos and the bailes are trashhhhhhh. Best quince danc 
Also  this dance sequence  they missed the fortnite craze by a couple of months but I still appreciated this 
"The trailers for this film, culminating in the swerve of the opening credits being a Groot dance number was one of "
"Dance on Clouds and Spark your event into life with our fog and fireworks package.
kmusic "
tbh yoongi deserves to be in the dance line.
"""u'm not saying i'm going to dance in the show, but if i did""

tsundere"
"Original Trance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud
 "
"At old people parties all they do is play old people music, dance and Watch how much food people taking"
"Surrounded by your glory
What will my heart feel
Will I dance for you Jesus
Or in awe of You be still
Will I stand "
  Dance like no one is watching
If Beyonce went to an HBCU she wouldve definitely went to one in the SWAC... that had a bomb performing arts progr 
   But isn't that the new dance the kids are doing the jiffy
     Why r u drilling her? R u the Gestapo?
  Ms Patty J Food Looks Good MMMMM Good Enjoy ur night out party n eat for me dont forget your dance N 
Congratulations! Angela Post-you are the winner of our dance contest!  Find me at casino night to collect your prize!
Menno vs. Taisuke  Final  Red Bull BC One World Final 2014 Paris 
She looks so good movin' cross the dance floor 
"When you're squad dared you to dance

; "
"Instead of AccessInclusionSeekers can we be referred to as ""People who we owe major apologies to; We're super shit "
Someone come over so we can drink wine and watch HomecomingBeyonce and dance
 House of Payne. A lot of critters like to dance to this tune.
Dance in the moonlight oh
i won a dance from an fc event now ascilia is gonna dance like she's in a boy band
" oh yes  he is so cute and precious...  and you are a Taeyong stan, right? he is also awesome! his rap, h "
Man dancing to Post Malone in Jacksonville goes viralVideo from 1Vibe Dance ( and credit to Jennifer Co 
Dance and Circus classes running each day next week! (including public holidays) See you there  
"The recovering rocker made a stealth appearance at the ballet, slipping backstage to support his partner, Melanie H "
 Its a rock show buddy. People wanna stand and dance. I do it all the time. Its the only appropriate res 
Just dropped the Jr. Exec. off for his first school dance. Poor kid was so nervous.
"Day 3: Haley

I love how she calls me ugly and refuses to dance with me at the flower festival :)

stardewvalley "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Milagre by Quarteto Em Cy on  
 Watching my daughter's dance recital. 
Found one of their dance covers on YT around September.  
  Boss doesnt mind.  Even he took a breather for olives and figs and a belly dance at Lucius pad.
 Ill slow dance with you. 
last i love woojin so much he is the sunshine of my life and i never want him to forget that he has the voice of an 
"it's hard to dance with a devil on your back
so shake him off"
  Is this dance leader hoseok?
Let's go baby and dance now In Your Light (Radio Mix) by Daniel Murillo on  
Josephine Baker's Last Dance ~ Excerpt and Review  via 
Best rock pop dance music Now Shout by The Trammps on  
"Marc Parco, the dance floor master  "
I WANT TO SEE THE DANCE PRACTICE FOR BOYS WITH LUV
 Wowwww Lol I forgot tht. I think we both did fly out tht summer lol and come back late and have to learn 
"While I'm watching this my brother said ""all my Asians girl come and show me something"" coming from shut up and dan "
 Happy dance! 
"The Streets - A Grand Dont Come For Free
The Ice Juice Billions Episode
Re-Up Gang Vol. 2
Friday Night Lights Pilo "
"Im washing my hair, doing a face mask &amp; watching greys anatomy tonight  thats the vibe. Cause it too cold to hit "
And we're all dancing Shiva's dance 
praying for love in a lap dance and paying in naivety
So we making a line dance to Beyonc version of before I let go? Or is it already in the makes?
Honour Dance - UK Open Professional Ballroom 2011 
Just Lillith rocking the spoon dance. 
And it's dance music
NO ONES HOME IM HAVING A ONE PERSON HAIRSPRAY/MAMMA MIA/ONE DIRECTION DANCE PARTY
my first dance will be to the halo 3 theme song
" Junkyu attended Def Dance Skool with Doyoung.
 He has a cat named Ruby.
 He shares a room with Haruto.
 He got "
"We can choose to hate the rain or dance in it.
- Joan Marques"
i want a lap dance
"Miriam - Hallelujah. One quick song and dance to say TNX to God, and let's get going towards Mt. Sinai."
"We can just dance to this
FREE JULIANTINA "
"Benny Mendy a bonfire coon. Was the voice of the Were French, not African immigrants rebuttal after the World Cu "
"Once upon a timeThis is where and when my both daughters started to imitate him. His dance, the way he sang and hi "
"Rogue: bird, bard, they're basically the same. they both sing and dance to get it.

Bard: . . . shit, their right

dnd"
" that should be me - jb
dance with my father -luther vandross
marry your daughter -brian mcknight

yg ma "
One girl had this at the bubble dance party. I made  some money tonight by asking for any of these i 
"my dad sara why do you always have to dance when you eat? 

i feel attacked"
"""I see .."" She approaches the other. Water began to dance around her waist as she stood up, tail disappearing. She "
"Final Smash: Become Burning Godzilla, and rush foward
Successful interaction: Cinematic and blastd opponent with In "
21 questions needs to be played for my husband and Is first dance
Dont forget to tune in tomorrow night from 7:00pm-midnight for another edition of Connecticuts 1 interactive dan 
"To dance with the stranger, turn to page 47. Otherwise, turn to page 28."
"Trivia for the early hours between Friday &amp; Saturday. Although the euro dance version of ""Please Don' t Go"" by Doub "
"Haha this is how I dance to the devil.

devildance boobworship "
SOMALIA If you enjoyed the dance (Retweet) 
" 
If Kate Smith is banned from YS because of a song in 1931, then it is imperative that the Yankees remove "
"THANK YOU Kayleigh Cook and Anela Vujkovi for coaching our engaged clients into greatness! 
You teach them to dan "
"The rhythmic dance of the animatronic academic, a gyrating of rusted gears and the sputtering of grey smoke from it "
"  Maybe if she channels her 1/1024th Native American, she can do the notorious Impeachment D "
What should you do when one of BLACKPINKs songs comes on? The only answer is dance! And thats exactly how one lit 
Me walkin up in Jewels Dance Hall tonight. 
"I spotted this truculent taskmaster paced dance floor. I have been told, but recently returned to eat slower tomorrow, and"
"Tell you what life is
even though they havent a clue
Say living is just a dance
but ignore the truth
that no one k "
Treat each fight like an elegant dance... Isn't that what a samurai must live like?
 OMGoodness that black and white contemporary ballet dance break 
Trying to bless the dance floor tonight 
A full blown Beyonce-induced dance breakdown in the shower almost turned me into one of the women in the beginning 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Cheerleader &amp;40;Felix Jaehn Remix&amp;41;
 - OMI
 "
"New trending GIF tagged dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tg "
anyone in toronto like dance gavin dance and wanna go w me? I have an extra ticket for Monday
I wonder hahahaha lol 
" The ol ISIS goat lift exercise. Derived from an ancient cultural dance, the vixen whisperer."
"Indian maidens dance in the light of the Full Pink Moon
Love like the wild flowers of spring are now in full bloom "
weddings.....when the dancefloor is full of ladies until they make their dates get up and dance wit them
HE CAN DANCE!!!!  
Im listening to old 5sos and having flashbacks to when I would dance around my room for hours listening to them and being genuinely happy
" True we didn't go out. Also my ""friends"" were assholes. Next time, we will go to u street and dance our asses off"
"also yukhei is so fine and it's completely effortless it makes me a little mad but also like,,,,,, he's such a beau "
"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never been hurt and dance like no one is watching."
 // Best time to dance
DanceAfrica Miami 2019s opens up with Mouminatou Camara Guinea Dance Class August 2nd. Purchase your class for $1 
Dominick Young Crush Dance !! 
     Into slavery are u? Owning another human 
Little man doing his birthday dance  
This animation and or dance was so much fun to do. I loved to do it. And I was also inspired by others to do it ^^ 
 Is this on just dance? 
Best dance club ever. 2016-2017 
shoutout  for this video is yall check him out and the track Sleaze link in bio spotify 
 EVEN IF IT'S A MEME YOU DANCE PRETTY COOL
  The dance or the caption?
Let's go baby and dance now If You Want To by Lalah Hathaway on  
 ShineDowns cover of Simple man was my Mother/Son dance at my wedding so you 0-2 there big shoots lol Ill 
Best rock pop dance music Now Bad Case Of Loving You by Robert Palmer on  
"""I couldn't leave my best girl, not when she owes me a dance"" DAMN YOU, STEVE ROGERS. MAKING ME CRY AND ISH."
" What if someone is Czech or Austrian, can they still dance with Poles? "
i wanna give someone a lap dance to dionysis:((((
 my old dance teacher works there
       What is goin o 
Let me guess... we are having the dance practice for boy with luv in the next 10 hours maybe ... and we must have t 
     Oh wow!!! Love them!!! They had a crew on World of Da 
" ONE MAN DANCE PARTY

EPIC MOTIVATOR 12/10"
 You can dance
 Kino is the green haired dude in the performances and he was actually suffering from an ankle injury fo 
"This weekend TheTakeOverWithCB has your Therapy , HouseTherapy that is. Catch your monthly dose of House on the "
Watching 2 crackheads dance with each other and they look so happy .. maybe crack isnt that bad you know like it cant be that bad
 You at the dance  
"But real life, this song made me feel like a boss during/after a really hard breakup. I have for sure danced the pa "
"I cant believe my first slow dance with my boyfriend was to My Neck, my Back at one in the morning drunk af"
"Built a ship out the wood on the beach
Built a home out the bones in the street
Got thorns in the soles of my feet "
Listen the best music. Now I Won't Dance by Oscar Peterson on 
"Gravity is giving me similar vibe as another night tbh, it also makes me wanna dance!"
 Time for a rain dance.
More like dance of the macbre these days what with 'nationalist' Sadhvis cursing true heroes and martyrs and other 
LISTEN... If my ONLY chance at serenading Rihanna is via dance moves then best BELIEVE that I'm gon' make it work... 
" True story: I dont wear lipstick much, but when I do, I always think of the first time I tried (for a "
  Oh my gosh! Dont remind me: I can hardly control myself as it is! I am on BTS overload a 
 learn to dance now
Viennese Waltz michigandancechallenge ballroomdancing ballroomdance dance dancelife viennesewaltz @ The Henry 
me when i see bow kid doing the fortnite dance 
" sis , you can be an Idol tbh shhshshshs, u can dance u can sing. lolllll , lowkey thought that ur Lisa "
"Been a minute, just out here grindin  Throwin down tonight  so come through and lets knock back a f "
If this doesn't make your booty move check your pulse! A great song from the new   album! Now get up 
Child i can do any dance any way and Lay will pipe me up every time. Shes loyal
Somebody teach me the Get Me Bodied dance
So you think you can dance * Siakam to Ross on that And1 play* RTZ WeTheNorth
"Totally didnt know Velvet and Therese, two dance vocalists I havent thought about in ages, got together for a cover of Heart of Glass."
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Just Can't Get Enough by The Saturdays on  
"Crescendo and Peak
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 1v1 me m8"
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Like A Hurricane by Neil Young on  
"

                Roseanne Park,

   Someone who has an amazing
   vocal skill, amazing dance moves,
   and an en "
I cant dance for shit but with the help of crown Ill always try lmao  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : BIBA
 - Marshmello Ft. Pritam, Shirley Setia
 "
Any other male do the phone wallet keys slap dance since forever  phonewalletkeys
junkyu's predebut dance video ... 
you seeeee these moves only at TMO wanna be apart of the team appplyyyyyy  and you can dance with 
"       Um, what?
Are you "
"New Awsome GIF. Tags: dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif "
My mentor/dance teacher is also an ex-English teacher. She read through my thesis project and now we're having a ph 
15 likes and ill learn the dance 
I need to dance like nobodys watching  
We  dance forever 
" 

You know I love his Classic Golf Swing but if it isnt a new dance move, I have no clue! Id love to "
Sitting here writing and listening to music like I always do. What comes on???? Another 'hidden' Hampster Dance fro 
anyways i remember the last days of the year in elementary school and they would get out the just dance for all the 
"Listen to John Trudell - Heart Taker-Owl Dance by Tribal Voice np on SoundCloud
"
With my Lovely  for her Break on 2 dance performance. 
"Yall, the dance for Does Your Mother Know? is going to be so much fun. HARTMammaMia  HARTTanya"
Rohan wall shield is one of the many fabulous prizes you could win at An Evening in Middle-earth Charity Dinner Dan 
Dj Cole - Soul Train Dance Mix (Full Version)  via 
"Things that make me happy dance:

1. Aj

2. Food"
Want to dance Mexican music 
Dance to going crazy bc you got me going crazy of your love 
I typically never take pleasure in people losing their jobs. But I will dance my ass off when they start the layoffs at Kotaku
 I want footage of two booktubers doing this dance at book con now. Ill let the singing be optional though. 
"i havent tweeted that i wanna dance bachata w edwin in a while so,,,,,,, idk if yall knew but i wanna dance bachata w edwin"
 You better have a dance with that coyote.
 puts on my jester costume n does a dance to cheer u  up
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Amnesia by Ian Carey &amp; Rosette Feat. Timbaland &amp; Brasco on 
Lap dance by pink dollaz is forever a bop... top 5
Makes me happy. derekhoughlive dance 
ThingsIHaventOutgrown our love for dance 
yall really wanna see me dance bad  
Best rock pop dance music Now My Favourite Waste Of Time by Owen Paul on  
"Been a minute, just out here grindin  Throwin down tonight  so come through and lets knock back a f "
chhoris best dance song 
CAN SOMEONE SEND THE CLIP OF HOBI TALKING ABOUT SHOPPING IN THE INTERVIEW AND HE DOES A LIL DANCE?!? its for scien 
  What if she is her own evil twin? Working on hologram MJ dance moves. Yes yes.
Dance the pain away
"Blessed with all the orange to last me a lifetime. 

Thanks  for giving me a place to share my love o "
Spring Fling Dance  
Sonando en KQ DANCE MIX    MORE AND MORE - unknown artist  La Invecible  
"Dance scene was fake ...
Marriage proposal a fail..
Title Ep Aku cinta kamu a bait

sh writers hate us "
uhh ahh uhh ahh uhh ahh uhh ahh uhh *dance bubble pop*
 yall paying people at the fader and you still dont know its   dance SHEESH
yea...as much fun as it is to dance imagine me trying to do it seriously 
how many pole dance instructors 
"Honeys, Sarah Sanders what will she be when this is all over? Fox news princess? Poll dance stripper? 
Christian TV "
      He doesnt even know that tiny elve 
"Friday night dance party of 1 
"
"Hey Ferris alum, what happened to the vine of the guy getting a lap dance on the shooters floor?"
uhmmhhm excuse me???? but taeyeon having fun with that pubg dance is. So???cute????? leave her alone shes just a la 
"Latest piece:  2019.8 Glitch: If your body is a miracle Then your brain is the next step up. Combined, they dance t "
        
" If you dont dance all around the house when your home alone, your crazy"
we can just... WE CAN JUST DANCE TO THIS
And learn to do lil 1-2-3 dance moves!!! 
"    Ok, so as a normal functioning human being I have to ask, did t "
"Have you watched my newest TaengooTV? Yes yes. That one, I danced to PUBG Iconic dance. Please do watch it, for a b "
If you see me at the bar during the father daughter dance at Kenias quince mind ya own business ima be taking sho 
"     And before you freak out, I did not make assump "
"1,2,3 sweet dog, watch chance's smiles. Start to scream and dance ""Oh baby, baby!"""
rock pop dance classic hits now: Guajira by Santana on  
Why did me watching Tom Hollands Lip Sync Battle morphed into me wondering if Sanada can dance like Magic Mike?
"im so grateful. i know life may go bad sometimes, but i am so grateful. even when it doesnt show. im grateful for t "
He probably fine with letting you dance on other men too huh ? Smh  
"Trautman on FX for OU - DLO is huge, very nice. Combo pass, a little low on second element. Great dance element pre "
Time to dance tonight and none of bomf could compare so up urs!! 
i really wanna dance with him like dis 
"The Rs for the Rule of Law, are they in the US Senate? If yes, then it should spread through out the R-Senate and "
 i bought you fiji water so i can dance in your piss
TWIST MY FINGAZ DO MY DANCE
In a dance I performed an orchid turns to flame to show that life is too short.
        
This song growing on me... now to learn the dance that goes with it!  
when the devil wants to dance with you you better say never because a dance with the devil might last you for ever
" I'll go everywhere, I'll eat, dance, walk around the corridors, and most importantly I'll take lots of pictures."
  its he new signature dance
LOTS of wine and dance parties is highly recommended if youre goin through shit
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : EDIT Feel The Spirit &amp;40;Remix&amp;41;
 - Michael Canitrot &amp; Hardsoul
 "
Have anybody mastered this line dance to Beyoncs  before I let go  .?.... Im ready to learn
Urban Dance Squad - Good Grief [Rap/Rock Crossover] (1994) 
"In all that I saw, I was satisfied, for I could dance in the drops of water, laugh with the laps of joyous tears, "
Growing up this is what I thought love would be. Singing to Rihanna on a beach while busting the whitest dance move 
"I misnamed ""Careless Whisper"" as ""I'm Never Gonna Dance Again"" because I'M NEVER GONNA DANCE AGAIN IS REPEATED 1000 "
"All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Mas, Que Nada by Jorge Ben on  "
 Dance break anyone??
i came to dance dance dance
Dance to the beat.nextheirbot
Lets dance!  Im horrible sorry 
This Zanku dance has levels. 
fuck i wish i could dance
"  It wasn't just his phenomenal dance moves, it was his whole persona. Heaven sent!"
"I like the way that you dance
When you dance
Like the way that you dance
When you dance with your pants off"
have we gotten an official line dance for this Beyonce Before I Let Go joint? or we just gonna electric slide it out?
 Thats ur birthday dance? 
Seeing people dance in the club and catching your groove from it &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
" prolly true. she never had a political conscience &amp; much of her audience isnt woke either. no matter, mos "
"Come and see VIP's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance    
 "
idk if Im late to the game but frick  is a freakin baller and I wanna be friends with her and her 
Now playing More Than Words by Extreme music best hits rock pop dance on  
 Im with you but Im gonna dance this long week out lol.
  + the footloose dance is the only appropriate reaction to this moment
going 2 LA 2 dance 2night 
Just realized not a single chicken has done the chicken dance and I am devastated.
Bey really not gone give us a video tutorial for the lil dance part of Before I Let Go?
"Literally  is both my mental therapist and ears therapist
And I can predict that he would dance to Bl "
I am very close friends with the mother and Im currently aware of the situation that is going on. Her daughter is 
I love the sit-spin-fall dance move alfkkdkala
NowPlaying Saturnz Barz By Gorillaz ft. Popcaan on  - Today's Music REMIXED for the Dance F 
"s e v e n t e e n. 

I just want to dance with you "
"What you doing the dance mix.

cockatiel cockatielsofinstagram cockatiellove cockatielbird cockatiels tiel "
 Your snark makes me LOL AND do a happy dance all at the same time.
Shut up and dance
Back 2 Love Dance Video  via 
     Yeah its a game to Dance- thats why she was 
Now Playing:  Everybody Dance - Chic  Listen Live:  
i can sing and dance
"So I get to go out with Eduardo &amp; my long lost friends ( &amp;  tonight, get to spend the entir "
 Did she do her Impeachment dance too?
" somebody is making the Dems dance around impeachment, if it's Nancy Pelosi, she is dead wrong. I've "
This  album got me pullin all the dance moves out the vault  
 You better save me a dance beautiful queen
A Night Bass party is always a match for Field Trip at  and last night was a prime example! Thanks for f 
 but the audience needs a Dionysus dance practice
 // she do a dance!
Best rock pop dance music Now All Or Nothing by Cher on  
  Its a new soundtrack........We cant wait to dance to the beat!! 4.26!!!!!! 
DaNcE MoVEs....  
   us at dance
Whats the better first dance song? Trying to prove a point.
the other dance group is dancing to rather be (the original) and they've made cuts and it's throwing me off so bad
 security wont let us dance at this show!!! Tell them whats good - ps youre the best truetalent
"Congrats to Alysha, Blake and Nathan, all of whom are true representatives of the Arts at Cary-Grove. Act/voice/dan "
"Fact Friday: not twins....

yhwh ytm gmg jordananddestiny afro girlgroup duo funfacts melanin sisters "
 I watched your reaction video.  Loved the cabbage patch dance!   That lip sync was SICK!
"GLOW in the DARK MLCA Youth Dance (Drop and Go)
Friday April 26, 2019 7:00 to 8:30pm
Marda Loop Communities Associa "
shoutout jimbonethaplugg for this video is yall check him out and the track Sleaze link in bio spotify 
 Do. What I do. Dance like CW in Weapon of Choice to push buttons. 
"     Wow, assumption much?
You know nothing about me "
"Stories of freedom
 freemusic
music love hiphop rap dj art instagood follow like artist fashion "
Once I learn how to dance like this it's over for y'all 
"9 day Hard dry fast !
Dance  like no one is watching....! Day  1  guys!
Incredible, Insane, Unbelievable!
Up "
Someone biked by and saw kiira giving me a lap dance 
"TONIGHT: 
Join us for dancepark a free danceparty with  alongside donnerstag xephyr &amp; joeflow 9 "
"Come and see LittleMissMagic's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance LittleMissMagic girl  
 "
"Join me tonight 11pmest   
For the best housemusic
Wherethebeatbeggins 
Sparkzinurradio "
 i just remember watching a bts dance practice and i was like wow they dance so nice and there musi 
"Dowell FX - finally getting to see some OU floor. Piked double front, her eponymous skill, amazing. Combo pass is g "
The blade dance will forever trend in Detroit
Let's go baby and dance now Galaxies &amp; Stars (Featuring Ce'Cile) by Doctor P on  
"If I can't lead you in a dance, I won't capture your attention - Discotheque Love Souchii"
" Ughh thats why the dance is so fresh, young minds are amazing"
Just showed Evie a video of the royal family dance company and she said it looks like one organism
i wish I could dance :(
This Easter we must fortnite dance during praise and worship. Its what Jesus wouldve wanted.
" If you dont dance to taylor swift songs, you arent listening to them right"
" Well, in 2015 my best friend introduced me to BTS. She said they were amazing and the way they danc "
"   Meanwhile,  still cant find a job. Sweeping up Kathie Jos dance "
"ZumbaWithFriends = AWESOME FRIDAY NIGHT CLASS! 
    dance dancefitness "
"    Good luck with that, you outstanding hypocrite! Your dear "
"5/12()
BRAIN 3
-SP GUEST-Awich
-GUEST-DJ SHINGO
MUSIC by SANDY CLAWS,DONK,YELLOW CHROMEC,AYUMA,SLEEVE
-DANCE-Foxy,dumb
17:0022:00"
The browns first dance as a married couple. Congratulations brattycatty37 
 Learn a Fortnite dance
I just wanna dance with  to his songs all day long...
 Uncle Ricky! Dance in Armani's like he was at a cookout!
"If you wanna dance, then,
dance with me.
Its pretty fast but
this is what you do at parties, right?

And I know it "
Now playing RaymondScott - Egyptian Barn Dance on North Texas Radio
"  How can we dance when our earth is turning

How do we sleep while our beds are burni "
I tried to dance along to Dionysus for like a minute... a bitch is sweating and my thighs are aching
Kida the Great | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19  via 
Next school year I get to bring my dance team back to life
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Fire by Milk Inc. on  
"dionysus choreography. lyrics, dance..............dionysus is just outsold"
  No wonder the teaser dance seemed so familiar.  WOOOOOHOOO TWICEPINK
Rose McGowan to perform one-woman show at Edinburgh Fringe Festival 
"We haven't had the same experience with a basiji dance that you performed, the one that I knew and my friends had s "
"wIlL yOu DaNcE tO tHiS bEaT aNd HoLd A lOvEr ClOsE
im ruining my own work "
  To the topic. Don't dance like a headless chicken
Tonights mood: Dance it all 
"Life is an affair of mystery; shared with companions of music, dance and poetry."
Im so happy for my oldest sister ! She looks so happy thru the wedding and esp their first dance !
Need some friends that like to dance cause Im trying to give someone daughter a sweet whine while I hide my face f 
Percussion Ensemble Concert begins at 7:00pm at SJSU School of Music &amp; Dance.  
I'm going to dance my depression away at a hardcore concert as soon as this semester is over
Combine that with the changing (more revealing) fashion and God forbid anyone see your HAIR at a... whatever the 19 
" My bias is Yujin she can almost do everything; she can sing, dance, rap, mc, and act, except for on "
Dance fight? Dance fight.
     ARE THEY THE ONE WHO WON ON WORLD OF DANCE?
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Little Green Bag by George Baker Selection on 
"Attn friends and family! 
Save the date to attend the girls dance recital with switch_performing_arts!
When: Thursd "
watch me get extremely bored this vacation and dance to whatever kpop song i wanna dance to
"Took our skills from the lab to the dance floor...up to you to decide how that went 
What a time it was with my dat "
SA Met Ballet's mission is to provide a professional dance experience in a pre-professional setting. Bringing in hi 
The dance sequence in Short Circuit was a shout-out to John Travoltas disco classic. And the proving ground scen 
Emmas just got us chucked oot for spittin tequila rose all over the dance floor 
Itisjusttrue  White  p eopl e  dips  into  other  cultures  mostly  black  culture  they  must  not    have  their 
Dance Classes: Recreational Dance 
     If so humane bring them into ur homes. Oh thats right- ur racists.
We can get 2 of yongsuns fancams to 1M. and maybe if she gets enough hype her gogobebe dance video gets to 1M too
hey    I was wondering if we could please have a Dionysus dance practice? 
All I want is darien to dance with me
Dance on em Jay 
"Tonight Tonight
Why not make this night
Special for us

Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas/My Dear Lady, Will You Dance With Me Tonight?"
" Or, as Dogbert would say, ""Dance like it hurts, love like you need money and work when people are "
Man listen....had to stop myself from doing Top Off dance before I wrecked. 
this dance and song. dead 
" In no particular order:
-Chin Music
-Juuuuust a bit outside
-Paint the black
-Derek Jeter Dance
-Dial him up
-Got heeem"
   and I'm sitting here editing video I shot at Celebration! p.s. Glad you guys 
"HONK HONK HONK HONK!!!!
25 minutes of work DONE  pomodoro

we only got 5 minutes to save the world *5-min dance party *

ok back to work"
 Now and then you miss it.. sounds make you cry.. some nights you dance with.. tears in your eyes 
tired of how yall try so hard to exclude dance &amp; electro music in hip hop n say only lyrical shit matters. so we ju 
" i speak the sacred tongue of he who has been since the dawn of time, the almighty hank hill...letting "
"Honored to dance with our son Remo. YES! @ Peoria, Arizona "
"i got tired, so i stopped practicing the dance :/ 10 minutes does it heheh"
do you ever turn on holy ground and spin around your room and dance like an idiot? just me? okay-
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Colors
 - Jason Derulo
 "
"Cripple Creek, by Henry Reed

""Cripple Creek"" is so widespread in the twentieth century that "
Me when I get to heavens gates and god tell me to dance for him to earn my admittance 
 Im happy shes so happy ! When you find a good dr you love dance with him!!! I found one!!
Dance music on WBOM!   Enrique Iglesias -  Turn The Night Up on  
BLACKPINKs Kill This Love Dance Cover by Pink Panda -DanceCover KPop BLACKPINK Jisoo Jennie Ros Lisa 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB We All Belong by Kate Ryan on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Jacksons / Torture by Various Artists on  
"If you have me on snap, you know all I do is dance  "
Shell dance when no ones watching.
My hormones are acting crazy tonight. Im over here crying over a dance show
"like we all kno how talented she is BUT IT BEARS REPEATING, out here making amazing fun bops for self realization / "
"Neon NiteClub - Brand New Love 
 1RSIDANCE 
"
NowPlaying No Dance No Fuck by Dia de Furia
" Wander gently with your back to your home for a while. Back in the day, this soul shall never mark if "
"  Chris mentioned that, because you dont have constituents to worry about, helps the members "
JW is headed out to his first country dance... with girls  Lord have mercy...
Im talm bout who gonna win in a fight not who can dance better with a sword lol. If bronn is a swordsma. Jaqen is 
"She wants to dance like Uma Thurman, and I can't get you out of my head. 

Makeup:  "
     Their not all unarmed &amp; the mukes certsinly arent
MOOD I may not know how to dance dance BUT Im never afraid get out there and DANCE  I go for IT! I aint never 
Who was your first crush?  yung first and last dance ko po nung js prom 
For example just the other day we went out to eat and to dance and I rly enjoyed it. I felt so weird when she dropp 
First time Ive been in a club since last year and Im just happy to have found the spot the air conditioning hits the dance floor 
 Hay  Smitt =  Ask   Hillary  4  A  [ Lap ]  Dance !!!   u   Smell  like  A  Smelly  dem-  in  A  Can  of 
goodnight loves! so happy to see my friends and dance and laugh with them. i hope you all have a wonderful night  
how is he makin the beats to this song with his dance moves tho 
    people who think hobi only communicates through pa pa pa's during dance practice can suck it
"sucks when all my dance friends have those long, skinny legs then im over here with short, fat legs smhhhh iykyk"
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Summertime by DJ Jazzy Jeff &amp; The Fresh Prince on 
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
 I'll still dance to Billie Jean but yikes
NorthernParallels getting Mike Ds birthday dance party ready to rumble     @ Rozz-Tox 
 Calliope: *she would talk with her sisters and friends and dance with potential suitors before return 
   You can keep doing the clown dance it doesn't matter to me. Better than smoking crack I guess.
Trynna dance along to Beychella gotta be the ultimate workout.
  Lets face it - we'd all dance like that if we got paid $1mil to play apex for only a day.
"BLACKPINK
'Kill This Love' DANCE PRACTICE
VIDEO (MOVINO VER.)
 07.00 .  
date 19 Aarch 2019 (10 day)
1 "
" Raheem Devaughn - You 
This the song were gonna dance to."
" Dance: Ok that was crazy

Music: Yeah

Lyric: ......you can say that again"
"Dance from your heart and let your passion shine through.  The Dance Mum

Photo: Annie Leibovitz "
 literally listening to them everyday until. Im ready to dance
" I think there are enough ants in the world, but if youre concerned about nice ants dying, I can ship him t "
"On a bright note, underground music seems to be thriving in Southeast Asia, with cross-border coop at its heart "
O shet I miss performing this!!! Zapin is probably one of my favourite Malay dance  
Its really tiring having to explain to narrow minded people how much depth BTS music has. They think Im obessed 
 I miss you too  i miss our dance family
The New York City Ballet has reinstated 2 male dancers who were accused of sharing sexually explicit photos of fema 
Best rock pop dance music Now What I Like About You by The Romantics on  
Now Playng: Icona Pop - Someone Who Can Dance
 Vibrant blossoms bloom and then wilt without recognizing the enduring evergreens on which they grow. Maybe 
"Dance with me, my old friend 
Once before we go 
Lets pretend this song wont end 
And we never have to go home"
"Woodbridge dance teacher facing sexual abuse, child pornography charges "
"All I want is my mothers embrace
My fathers warmth
My sisters dance lessons 
&amp; my brothers peoples elbow"
" Some dance to remember, some dance to forget..."
Doing the *Resignations are coming* happy dance!!! 
Cher came on at landmark once and Edward n I made love on the dance floor
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing So Far Away by Dire Straits on  
the question is...do i try to teach myself the Miroh dance??  i would appreciate a private tutorial if you are available
 Don't worry they will come out Monday yelling and screaming with all the fire power they have and lik 
" I stan a multi-talented man
He can sing,dance,compose and produce songs and can take beautiful sceneri "
 Dance card? You have my interest already
"  

Thanks for closing out my bday with me  or MELLA needs to give me a bday dance off "
"Ranking as per Acting , Looks , Dance &amp; Stardom !!

RanbirKapoor /  

 /  "
"Can't you see? 
I don't wanna slow dance
In the dark "
"Seungmin as a photography major watches Hyunjin, dance major, at a dance showcase and finds his dancing so beautifu "
I want to watch solar pole dance so bad but lowkey scared to. 
live I Could Be The One (Nicktim Radio Edit) by Avicii Vs. Nicky Romero music  radio onair dance
 i hope they will have dance collab 
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
I feel like neurotypical kids don't get asked to leave dance class because they were yelling too much.
 oh wait nvm they don't even kick out people for having sex on the dance floor
 Wait until he's learning the fan dance 
" Yes,I'm still gone find my black queen and get married and dance to Love U 4 Life by Jodeci at out "
"Visit my Website ! Electro, Dance &amp; Trance Music  AnthonyCisco Dancemusic DJ EDM "
Now Playing: George Clinton - Last Dance [12''] | 80s disco funk radio nowplaying  |  [[[[[   TUNE IN: 
You should dance naked around a really immense burning vehicle
"NOW Gorgon City - All Night 
1RSIDANCE 
  
"
"Words fail to describe this awesomeness....

"
Dance of Death
remember when park jihoon went off on gogos dance break 
"WHAS GOOD takes over tonight! Dance party every weekend. Hip hop, R&amp;B, Soul, Reggae, Dancehall. Come early, stay la "
"  I still havent READ A Dance with Dragons, but I BOUGHT it, goodness"
  Yes! He's the guy who came out looking like he was about to launch into a Yo Gabba Gabba dancey 
"Was thinking today about how feelings are kicked into art and other sacred spaces - music, dance, letters, church, "
"Discover dance at the Sony Center, a monthly dance series that combines both performance and discussions . Feeling "
so can i have this dance?
I wanna go to a cool white ppl club and dance to OONTS OONTS OONTS 
Let's go baby and dance now Dessert by Dawin on  
Deep down we all want to dance in the rain. We're just held captive in the idea of social standards in the form of maturity.
"""The Blue Traveller in Danzil, the town of scorching sands is longing for Aveh's Ancient dance as the gentle wind sings."" EtoneBot"
Bout it Bout it playing while the LES Twins dance  NewOrleans culture ALL throughout that concert . Beyhive NOLAHive
And on Fridays we dance! WCEWallabyWay WCE3rdGrade bettertogetherhenry  MusicTeacher 
     Dont make me crash this prom!  This old man still has some dance moves! 
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
 We don't have the training games like dance dance :(
"MOMOLAND  
(Momoland-Im so hot ) Dance cover --park_haki
Full in YouTube= parkhaki-01 "
My attempt to create in these beautiful stoned tunnels of the Roman Theater &amp; my body guard ruining my image lol. L 
Dance music on WBOM!   Erasure -  Elevation on  
"Oh god, Retsu attempting to dance is me attempting to dance."
" Yaasss. Show off them moves, John. I can't dance and god knows my black card would get instantly revoked if I tried."
 fine as hell AND u dance omg 
"Dance with me in the your right mood
Bring your friend up like addition
I could admit it i'm pretty addicted
I give her admission"
"The  lineup is too  Find out more on our blog!

 

 "
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music 
They need a Just Dance Beyonc version 
 lucky come here they wanna see you dance   
need a stripper to tell me she dont dance rn
 Bruh.. is that the pee wee dance?
"Uh, cold shoulder, heartbroken, misspoken
I'm cut open, her fingers in all my stab wounds
And if she could, she'd p "
"i tried to dance to boy with luv and it sucks but i wanna post it, should i?"
Great dance mice. 
" i'm really glad smash has all these nice music options because this is among like, dozens of songs tha "
If you no Sabi dance for club my sister you go suffer oo
    You make 0 sense goodnight  Ill come see you dance soon 
i want to play dance rush ngl
"Couldnt ask for better team mates! Ez dub! We had to fight someone named sans, and now we can default dance on our "
 Hey I loved that movie!! Do you want to dance or do you want to dance - love it havent seen that in fo 
"  IF A MUSLIM PERSON IS HIT
SEE RAANDI DANCE ORGANISED BY CONG KE RAANDI SENA

HERE "
come on eileen WILL be the first dance song at my wedding. no ifs ands or buts about it!!
 I will never go to Made in America ever again. I don't care if Jesus and B2K was having a dance of 
Will I am great person I am great dancing is better for me oh yes oh yes I do love dance to me mind to you
Dance to this -   ft  
They lull you to sleep with normal dance and music but then BOOM the full on religious and political crazy hits you. Amazing.
 Happy Easter dear Rosie! So glad to see you enjoying your  life in London and you4 job Sadlers Wells 
"Imagine someone thinking Jesse Lingard was gonna dance on Camp Nous pitch 

Thats funnnny!"
My dad send me videos of people dancing Make me wanna dance rn 
 The joy for my child is when I dont publicly dance and sing ;)
 Girls who do that little dance when they get food scene
Learning a fun dance at Culture Day!!!     
"Aaahhh I see it now. Thats why some of the steps are different, hes dancing the Just Dance version.  "
I dance under the influence. And my livingroom is getting all this two step &amp; occasional dip.
" Not really that into dance though, so I dont know many for that... need to get into it!"
 Hahaha dude I sang my heart out and I was tellin my sis this my new workout tape. Beyonc is the on 
"Life may not be the party we hoped for, but while we're here we should dance"
were gonna dance by  is forever one of my favs 
" I gotta say, my wife can attest that I get up and sing/dance every time Rumours comes on. Didn't know "
GET this baby in some dance classes! This made my night!! 
     Bro rydee the sounds of music change oo. Burna boy 
You know you getting older when you and your friends made plans to go out tonight to a reggae dance but the rain got you stuck....
"  Lol shes been doing the same dance moves since 2001. Lol same hair, same dance, same everything."
Same old song and dance mastodon  this time... this time... things will work out just fine... we won 
gal friend couples gay switch turns right on once they hit the dance floor
im so sad the cutest boy came into my work today and he mentioned kpop to his friend and i smiled and he went oh! 
 I mean his exact words from the manga were you dance taijutsu the best/you are the best taijutsu use 
I'll dance with the madness of the tempo with securing steps and distance to take a hold on you.
" Just so you guys know she is part of a dance group called ""The Lab"" ( and they were in "
I have the strongest urge to dance on my man ): where he at
 Next Ebron v. Luck 70s Disco energy drink dance off
it's hard to dance with a devil on your back
I need my own dance studio
rock pop dance classic hits now: Blue Christmas by Willie Nelson on  
" 
Killer Kross is the mastermind behind the scenes. He is the wicked puppeteer who pulls the string "
"Drumsound &amp; Bassline Smith Feat. Tom Cane - Through The Night 
RSI DANCE  
"
Dance cover 
When you dance in the drizzling rain for an hour.... Anyone else love dancing outside in the middle of nature 
  How do you like dance so far Ella? Love you guys so much 
me asf if I have the Crown Royal courage to ask someone to dance  ifyouknowyouknow 
" I love to sing and to dance, but I'm absolutely awful at both.
I have nightmares about my body every. single. night."
 What absolute bullshit you people are truly the enemy of the American People and of the truth. You will s 
kid has got the entire just dance routine memorized 
" Dance to you, dance to me... Melt in my melty kiss... "
"""forget your trouble and dance!"""
"Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music  

"
 The Thomas Crowne Affair (Brosnan and Russo)....do you want to dance or do you want to dance Tha 
Dance class time!
"Can't you see?
I don't wanna slow dance 
In the daaaaaaaaaark
DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARK"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : We Light Forever Up
 - Benny Benassi, Lush &amp; Simon Ft. Frederick
 "
 It's a dance belt
 Dance the night away
"And we'll all dance alone to the tune of your death
We'll love again, we'll laugh again
And it's better off this way"
  BARGES IN UNANNOUNCED here is my fav vid of that dance crew 
"I think dance has got to be the best workout for me right now.
Burpees yen o le werk."
'I Hope You Dance' by Gladys Knight  via 
"I wanna start a fire. I wanna burn shit. I wanna write a song. Start a riot. Have a photo shoot. I wanna dance.

I wanna dance."
i wanna dance
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
" what kook says: wanna have a dance battle ?
what yoongi hears: wanna  have  a  battle "
 What I'd give to share a dance with you. 
"Work like you don't need the money. Love like you've never been hurt. 
Dance like nobody is watching.~Mark Twain "
Rose McGowan to perform one-woman show at Edinburgh Fringe Festival 
"EVERYBODY, DANCE NOW !!!
 "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Shame by Evelyn Champagne King on  
Best rock pop dance music Now Whatever You Do! Dont! by Shania Twain on  
Hi my names Dana and I love to dance; catch me at Conga Room Saturdays millie rockin to Selena
 Those dance moves 
Blackmobb D21  - On a Wave Dance Video  via 
Love dance point 
" Lets see just how talented you are!  Can you drink, dance and write in your favorite mens shirt??? "
 Go do a rain dance you fake
Latest from my blog. &gt;&gt;returner&lt;&lt;  is a world gone awry.  Dance ClimateChange 
"

APINK random dance 
"
Here is a hope that can murder the song's falsehood; here is another that can dance.
Wait how the fuck did the firefighters and construction workers know the dance steps?!?!?! Im nothing 
My goddaughter just did a backbend on these bitches on the dance floor 
pop my trunk dance break in HD. think about the material
Dance music on WBOM!   Alan Walker -  Faded on  
 Thot pocket doing her mating dance
"K-2nd and 3-4th Dance competition at Longfellow !
bgcofwhittier begreat RFTS aplacetobecome
Dont forget to fo "
" Them wild-eyed boys ask, guess who just got back today?
The crazy cats ask, where can they be found "
Second week of dance &amp; Delilahs catching on &amp; learning the dances quick!  my pretty hip hop princess 
BIG BIG shout and congratulations to  for the win last night  No disrespect to any of the other c 
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
  LMAOOOO when you fell on the dance floor twice 
Itisjusttrue  White  musicians  always  relied     on  the  black  p erson  that  sings  or  dance    or  write. 
"Let's go baby and dance now French Kiss [Radio Edit] by Urban Carter, Lily Pumpkin on  "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Get Down by Gene Chandler on  
Now playing Get It Right by Aretha Franklin music best hits rock pop dance on  
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB I Love It When You Cry (Moxoki) [Radio Edit] by Steve Aoki &amp; Moxie Raia on 
Money dance money dance 
You could swap out Yu Yu Hakushos Smile Bomb with Whitney Houstons I Wanna Dance With Somebody and probably get the same theme opener.
Donna Summer - Last Dance (HQ)  via 
"I love how Hanbit taps Jejes arm so she passes her mic to Sihyun, then passes her own mic to Taeri, then they both "
"  Lindsay Graham, before Vladimir Putin told him to dance, or hell tell America hes gay."
 My happy dance  
" He is pretty , did you watch his dance with win win? all my ge is so cool"
i just wanna dance like frances ha in the street to julien... this jam this bop this best song to date 
so after that we played just dance me and my friend were calling her birthday girl because its her birthday today 
"  The King of dance 
   EXO kimjongin "
"Think about the song ""It's My Life"" by Talk Talk. You know exactly how you're going to dance and you know when. eighties music talktalk"
Check out Just Dance 2 | Uhhh  
"  Why is Trump so blindly loyal to Kushner?  Kushner also got him to fire Comey, which was a "
 Probably the result of rewinding jimins rude lil dance 30 times
Ive never had a girl cry cause we wouldnt hire her to dance on the bar  like mam I have a whole final in another 
"the way i could go on and on and on about the dance industry and how much it has grown, and the fact that i really "
Whos ready for 96 hours at SEA?  ADCCuba ADCFam ADCDR AventuraDanceCruise @ Aventura Dance Cruise 
  Does this mean youre trading in scrubs for dance shoes to be back on Broadway?
She caught the attention of many when she showed her own rendition of HyunAs Change dance on Flower Bouquet.
  No one would criticise them if they didnt dance. Dancing cops ? We need to get a grip
I cant really dance I just be giggin
 Heres my dilemma: theres so much for them to learn;not only about life but about themselves-the nee 
Very Fine Ballroom Dance Shoes 9.5 Salsa Tango Latin 2.5 Inch Heel new no box Check it out $31.99 danceshoes 
NowPlaying Milk Inc. - Run - Listen on TuneIn Radio  or at 
 Makes me want to dance
Thunderalley gustodadon hitting the background dance  backgrounddance thunderup  gusto4president explorepage 
  DO I SPY WITH MY LITTLE EYES A METAL DANCE PLATFORM MOD
" NEW VIDEO 

- Follow the accts in bio for video -

 OhYeah
   
  
 "
But do you ever just sing and dance in your room by yourself. Just feeling yourself. Now thats another level of ha 
    Elegance in dance
"It's a dance party, Dot! That's the thing!"
"12) Iymavin has a deep love of music and dance, and enjoys sampling new examples whenever she can."
man i wouldve liked to dance i hated ballet but my mom wouldnt let me do anything else bc i had to do what my siste 
"Dance Gavin Dance React to Old Instagram Photos, Recall Their Craziest Crowd Surf Story "
"Living means getting up and dance, u are NOT living life if u don't dance. DANCING is the fastest and easiest way t "
let's get high and dance on the moon
"7 talented visuals with great rappers and great vocals. They dance well. Some members also make their own music, wr "
Who tf would ever say Beyonce is over rated???? I just dont understand. Do you know how talented you have to be to 
"  i dont understand people who go to concerts and just stand still the whole time, even wor "
 I think the only real option is to express how your feeling through the medium of interpretive dance. 
" lol
me too
TITS you are fabulous
you dance to the beat of your own drum"
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Dreamer
 - Martin Garrix Ft. Mike Yung
 "
Skinny girls arent allowed to dance to Tempo. Yall just have to take a knee for that one. I will not be taking questions.
"Watching homecoming and I have one question, Bey why all yall dressed in all Black in DANCE PRACTICE?  Dean Big "
If you cant dance on me to Jersey club music I dont want it 
" She has an advantage in stage visuals that MJ, didnt. Stage performance also entails more than just the "
shall we dance?
  He really want to dance lol
 dance with my father
Aunt May teaches Peter to dance. Tom Holland is actually a talented dancer and gymnast. MCURewatch
Only because  did it in a goal celebration. I have no clue why they dance in Fortnite:p Floss 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Reach Out I'll Be There by Gloria Gaynor on  
    Why is it so easy for me to corner dishonest people?!
Dance party Friday has turned into a full fledged concert. 
Someone get to work on making a line dance to Beyonc version of before I get home
Come see me dance! 
  ft Wizkid &amp; Kyla - One Dance (DJDX Reggaeton Redrum) (Clean) (Short Edit)
"Rome, Italy dance clubs and schools now in Bailaqui:  dance salsa"
Actually me laughing at anyone dance to hot dog from Micky mouse club house 
jimmyorack they ain't lying yet they coming from fights everyday and breathalyzer$ at the seventh grade dance
The dance scene was actually kind of gorgeous. The nudity was a bit extra but who's complaining tbh.
" Who says I havent danced for 30 years, I just havent danced whilst paying paid by the tax payer.
I "
One of the most underrated dance tracks of all time 
"Excited for FUSION XIX tomorrow?! Make sure to buy your tickets online at Eventbrite!  


On "
High ass fcking up at my dance concert 
My sister went to a dance after school she said it was these ratchet girls twerking in the middle of the floor &amp; 
"SHOW ME WHAT YOURE ALL ABOUT YEAAHH 
IVE BEEN WATCHING YOU ALL NIGHT 
THERES SOMETHING IN YOUR EYES SAY CMON C "
vou aprender a tocar dance the night away
" Dance: I do *runs into the portal*

Music: Same *goes into the portal*

Lyric: *follows them into the portal*"
"As far as I know, I'm first to making a Necrodancer stage?? Pixel art is hard. Look attem dance! StageSmashBros "
" Ive seen all her dance videos, I saw it when she posted it to IG "
 My version of interpretive dance is crying on the floor in my dorm room.
this is our last dance and this is the last time.
do my little lonely dance
 glad to be of assistance  one of the comments said they should add the little flower patches that th 
Doing some FlashFlashRevolution so come on by if you're feeling groovy!!! No cam tonight as I got a headache and l 
That Hobbs and Shaw trailer had me wanting to see the movie til they showed The Rock doing a haka before fighting I 
Dance music on WBOM!   Calvin Harris -  Slow Acid on  
"I don't go to dinner party to slay, I wouldn't be there if not for the food and dance."
"The mint from ur breath, the milk from ur breast, the best of ur mind, now in its worst state of condition. From t "
"I feel like we dont talk about sitcoms doing musical numbers enough... like  can dance, like really da "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Dreamworld (Radio Edit) by Blend-It on  
80s Funk Dance Music George Benson Give Me The Night 
"At my work place we drink, laugh and dance DjSabbyBirthdayParty "
"BTS On Their New Album, Reveals Who Has The Best Dance Moves &amp; More | TI...  via "
Writer | feminist | inventor of the checking if ur advisor emailed u back yet dance move | ~never the less she persisted~
 Lmaooo  Yes &amp; I Couldnt Dance Worth Shit . I Might CAn Do A Little Something Now 
"Come and see LittleMissMagic's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance LittleMissMagic girl  
 "
 Same Im tryna dance and have a drink
daydream literally best dance in the game
" But shatta no fit collect am since na best dance hall ... him be local shit ,no sure song of shatta makes "
Fortnite should get their dance moves from DQ. 
"ICYMI - Tomorrow our main room is turned over to techno queen  fresh off her  A/V set debut, "
My sister and I are driving with windows down and music blasted and she lowered the volume near the police station 
 INEC is collating the results of ur dance.
 amazing night at the Kingsmills in Inverness - what a fantastic bunch of guys clearly enjoying what t 
TONIGHT Let's generate some Body Heat with the freshest dance show on the planet.... JamesBrownFutureShock!!!! 
lose yourself to dance
 I Know What I'm In For Season 9. A Seven Second DANCE BREAK And  Looking As Lovely Than EV 
"Join us for our 3rd annual FREE Pop-Up STEM Party! Win fun and exciting gifts, enjoy innovative STEM competitions, "
 Dance the night away???
"this nugget is me. I am this nugget. this pole, our happy place. these dance moves, our story "
Legs look like she's tryna dance to Pentagon's naughty boy 
random dance 
Had to come READY in my black &amp; white with my dance moves ready just in case Omarion needed me to step in for him. 
"She dont dance for you like she dance for me, she don't handle you like she handle me "
I hadnt seen all the replies to this tweet white people are so ANNOYING yall are the ones that paid to go listen t 
OMG!!! Here We Go Again.. Another Dance Craze Sweeping The Internet... JINYUS - JOIN IN   reggaemusic reggae JSO
 Sheri little do you know but the song STAY. Reminds me of my moms passing. She loved to dance and the 
"Felices los 4 really makes me want to dance all night in a Latin club. 

Where is Don Julio when you need him?"
" miranda, 15, california, (i have zero idea), red, dance, wdw"
"  True story.
I was getting a dance at a *ahem* gentleman's club, and apparently the dancer "
"My brother is a foooool talm bout gangstas dont dance, they boogie "
Wonder if a Good ole boy or two took her to a dance. 
 Oh seen....big dance!!...how come Black Rose nah play too??...nuh St Bess big sound dat?? ...
" Well, then. [Bucky made a sweeping gesture with his hand, as if he was asking her to dance. There wa "
"nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Boogie Wonderland 2K by Earth, Wind &amp; Fire on  "
 Interpretive dance
 I mean your bar is pretty damn cool (if thats what ya mean) but I really wanna dance (when dont I)
My cousin went to a xv &amp; didnt invite me.... now the dumbass is looking for a dance partner 
"This girl does dance videos on IG, but they're pretty bad, but it's kind of on purpose? Lmao idk I but I like to wa "
" Please ReTweet - ""LIKE"" our Fan Page      Joey Dee - GodFather Twist Dance - "
why do people come into my room and watch me dance and say absolutely nothing till im done it makes me so fucking uncomfortable
The Heima's Love Me Again Routine Is Explosive - World of Dance 2019 (... 
 Who's the Journey Fan?????   TheOrville  
" Same, I have to wear one for my dance this Thursday-"
Pomplamoose - I'd Rather Dance with You
"Gasol doesn't need to know the Raptor's pre-game dance, he just needs to know the opposing team's weakness."
"Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone th "
  Part 2: Now with patent pending enhanced eyebrow dance  
" I love it. Shes legit giving dance instructions at the end, I need a video "
  Oh thanks to her!  Our  truly gave justice to the dance! 
"Although sports was always my talent and I love moving my body about, whenever I dance, I just enjoy myself and let my mind go blank--"
"and i chase it down
with a shot of truth
that my feet dont dance
like they did with yoooooou"
The moon lights up the dance floor
Ending the dance with butterfly kisses! 
i need a dance collab from HS (svt) &amp; LM (bp) 
Someone Gift Me This Dance  
 Perhaps they are on SDNY dance card
 There literally talking about a tiny dance move after he crossed somebody and then said they wonder if h 
Holy crap! Dance Moms is coming back.... Abby Lee is out of the clink and starting new BS!  Love it! Dont @ me... 
   I'm loving you in this Victorian-esqu (sp) look. I might need to ask you for this dance later
 the audience needs to see you dance to Dionysus by  
why is ot8 dance vid still being hyped?? :( 
 UKIP/Leave/ERG dance around their Brexit win . 
Delightfully surprised to follow the follow to this lovely lady  and adding her to my Friday night ch 
  I still say the VGK player was experimenting with ice dance elements. Very solid job by Cap of ma 
"The *real*  vs  competition we need to see is a Darwin Quintero vs Paul Aguilar dance off. 

mls LigaMXeng MNUFC"
"nowplaying Lay, Nct 127 Feat Jason Derulo - Let's Shut Up And Dance - Single "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Shame by Evelyn Champagne King on  
"(Wearing colorful, flashy outfits, I shall continue to sing and dance on stage, de gozaru~!)"
"You can license ""What""s Your Damage"" for your next project here -  royaltyfreemusic "
Best rock pop dance music Now You Spin Me Round by Dead Or Alive on  
Today's Dance YouTube Video The Chainsmokers's Closer (feat. Halsey) 
 Correct me if Im wrong but is this dance gavin dance?
 chats with Lyric Danae about navigating the differences between dance genresfrom Alvin Aileys Ho 
Meet the 96-year-old 'Dancing Nana' who still breaks it down on the dance floor.  
"You already knew the DANCE, now its teachem a NEW MOVE. StrongerthanEver Uplift "
"HERE IT IS !! 
  We will be having our last dance department show of the 2018-19 school year...
presale: $6
at th "

"* DL * | ""Justin Timberlake - Like I Love You (George Tsilipakos Remix)"" | mixed by  | Dance House "
Dont know why I never came across this quote by Khalil Jibran but this is the logic I kept explaining people in a 
Intermission dance break! So much joy. diversitybods chietapsi  wuhalo  gobods  @ Washburn University - 
Dead Can Dance 
"dancing on those crystal poles
the devil bout to get ahold
round and round and round it goes
where it stops nobody "
The Root Boys - Bass Dance
"The bunny dance fortnite  PS4share

 "
 To dance like this 
unexpectedcalendarthemes   Dance Moves 
not @ hyewon immediately leaving the screen after doing the dance 
"Dance for you by Beyonc, thats it"
"Mr Brico - Finish Your Grind (Original Mix)  

NewRelease NewReleases techhouse "
"Hip Hop International New Zealand 2019
New Zealand Hip Hop Dance Championship
The Royal Family - MegaCrew Division "
 Im doing a victory dance for you!!!
"It's time for special training, so let's dance. (Gun)"
 Seokjin literally feels his lungs shut off  violently at the last word to leave that mans throat. 
  I didnt know I could dance either 
     Are we forgetting brad performed all of high school musical dance scenes??
they also keep making fun of my need to fix my costume for dance and every time i try to talk they make fun of my w 
Let's go baby and dance now I'm an Albatraoz by AronChupa on  
16SHOTS - Stefflon Don / Yeji Kim Choreography / Dance 
 Punishes.  I bet they are all doing a happy dance chain around the office right now.
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
" Barr should be forced to resign or be impeached. He didnt just nuance, slow walk the report, spin or eve "
 that dance!
 please i cant even walk without tripping what makes you think i can dance
"Twirling into the weekend



centralfloridadancealliance dance twirl weekend timefortheweekend newtricks "
"Phoenix - Fences 
1RSIDANCE 
  
 "
    The burden of proof is on you. I read all of his tweets be 
" Tk U, 4 brin a ""Monster"" of an album out! Its been ""Waiting on the Corner"" on my shelf since the rel "
Gaon awards 2017- Nuest W dance performance intro shall forever remain my favourite intro from them.
I make my girls dance  
 Ahhh sorry so many songs :( theres also their dance videos from pre debut!!
" Congrats,  Time for a  dance party! Welcome to the UCDavis class of 202 "
"Thank you  for featuring CarryOn at the top of the New Dance Now playlist!! 
Listen here: "
 Tea in the dance realm I see
" We have squandered our too powerful, wobbly position by disappointing the rest of the leaders/populati "
How much you think Beyonce charges for a dance lesson?
"Dance Workshop Hosted by  at divaartsdancestudio tomorrow 3-5pm
.
.
.
 Modern Jazz HipHop "
"Outside dance hall:
you leaving already?
YeahI look too good!
Then we better turn around now! No use walking all that way..."
  DANCE YOU BEAUTIFUL MAN
"Thanks  8 PM,  tonight and tomorrow night, see Dance Dance Dance  2, part of "
"THE Pakatan Harapan government could end up like Lou Begas Mambo No. 5, Right Said Freds Im Too Sexy and Sir Mix "
Why yall be mixing afrobeats dance moves to Congolese or coupe dcale songs... like thats not the solution. 
Damn dance better than me 
 Ahah haha someone filming a kpop dance video for sure
"   Thanks Ellen, she told me should wouldnt get up and dance, NO WAY she said.
She "
Enjoyed seeing my grandson from the Space Scholars dance with a team from France after todays final round of compe 
Let us dance under the moonlight baby
Whoever feels it was written is better than illmatic go tap dance on some fucking lego blocks 
   Lol.  You've been singing that same song and dance since Nov 2016.  And 
 please me scenario is my fav dance in the game and ikonik his also cool and this is my only chance to get it
 as a black kpop stan I can say that how I dance 
 I would only dance like a lame horse 
How many time do you decline a guys invitation to dance until he leaves u alone...
 Yes i am so happy till i can dance hahaha (^^) (^-^)
cant believe i just listened to the chicken dance for 25 min
 Honestly  when will you stop falling for this monkey dance? He votes w/ Trumpn&amp; shares his values 
When she said be Italian and then charged the little boys for a sexy burlesque beach dance that was also maybe se 
I love how stylized the effects are for the dance forms in KnY's op.
"  As long as I get to wear a jean suit, no cake just cherry pie, and our first dance is to the boot scootin boogie"
Do yo dance on dat bitch on I know!
I learned a quite  Love is an addiction from the thriller series named YOU
"Editing dance photos like: Oh that's a great photo, they're all posed well with the arms going across... aaaand all "
This girl cant dance omg
The Central Victorian Lion Team perform the Long Fan Unification Dance as part of the BendigoEasterFestival2019 
"This is how I dance. No exaggeration. 

[Image description: Rodney Dangerfield dressed in a colourful outfit dancin "
Don't mind me I'm having a personal dance party on this bus listening to the new Lizzo album
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration  via 
I liked a  video  Reality Check VR Dance Central VR | Oculus Quest (Turn Down For Wh 
One day I will dance with  on stage 
me and daisha having a dance battle to old jigging songs 
"New trending GIF on GIPHY dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, "
its unhealthy how much dance moms i watch
Woah that was a great goal and aggressive dance by Darwin!
Dance music on WBOM!   Disclosure Feat. Sam Smith -  Latch (Featuring Sam Smith) on  
Let's go baby and dance now Everything Is Awesome!!! by Tegan &amp; Sara Feat. The Lonely Island on 
"Watching KALANK movie last night. What a beautiful movie with very nice Story. Great dialog, great perfomance, grea "
"Go Raptors! 

Product featured:  reppin their Twin Vision Bomber Jackets
 "
FAMILY DANCE TO END CREDITS OF KH1.5!!!
" Thats a hell of a weekend, Dance Gavin Dance will be awesome "
"Patren: We didn't get our own dance
Lupin: Guess we'll just STEAL everyone else's
Patren: That's not.... no.... wai "
"In my muddy life
You were like a single stem flower
Even this suffocating studio
If were together, turns into para "
Mastery over certain states of being/flowing. Fine tuning the dance and the flow. Grand displays of knowledge and p 
"15 minute sprints, and treat yo'self with a 3 minute dance break in between. "
" Pretty sure if she does it, that means pubg doing the Taeyeon dance."
"Gonna stretch my legs and then the dance party begins! Im a lazy kitty right now. 
 "
  JHope makes you happy and smile just watching him dance because he truly loves to perform
 Its 2 hours you gone be so mesmerized and ready to sing n dance  the whole tiiime
Wtf was that country dance 
Who was your first crush?  my first proper one was one of my friends from my dance group lmao dated for a lil bit 
 I love you too 
"People from other countries: Oh, where are you from?

Me: Dominican Republic!

Others: Oh! Give me lessons to learn "
"Ive been thinking about dance a lot lately, so heres a video I took during my dance class yesterday. Im the cute "
"GOT7() ""Look"" Dance Practice (Part Switch Ver.)   
BBMAs "
The Humpty Dance bumpsss... cant deny it
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Riders On The Storm by The Doors on  
  Interestingly..if  southern baptists  demanded  no  dance  clubs..or  Mormons  dema 
Alyson Williams - My Love Is So Raw Featuring Nikki D  TheBlast  Dance
" ""Heh, well, I do always dress to impress ya know. Especially with my queen~"" He would twirl her arou "
come ONNNN dance king 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: The Bug by Dire Straits on  
and is the only pop or rock artist to have been inducted into the Dance Hall of Fame. His other achievements includ 
Now playing Jazzy Vibes SHOWCASE Indie Artist for tonight its  latest Dance with you this SONG is 
Why tho? security nomameswey club music dance edm house electro partywiththedj standup comedy 
One of the most important dances of my life. Dancing with our son Remo during the mother son dance at his wedding. 
Our dance sessing with Shawn his friends during in my blood was everything
 Gift me the new dance(? :0 I'm Efito
 You bet your ass if I was there I would be running around screaming NIKKI WHERE THE HECK ARE YOU?! trying to find you to dance
" Im so glad someone recommended Oizo
Also dance to D.A.N.C.E - Justice"
"Jackson popularized complicated dance techniques such as the robot and the moonwalk, to which he gave the name. His "
" Yes all we have to is
Dance while the music still goes on"
Why does he look like he is doing the scuba dive dance 
i should watch the lonely dance videl
I feel bad for  as he gifted a random guy a dance because he felt bad now he cant get the bunnyhe aint gifting back 
"Dear George, Ill be done with Dance with Dragons shortly. Please hurry   GameOfThornes ForTheThrone "
  For real though dude. Personally I love my music!. Its fun to listen to and dance to.
"7.  Proves you're never too old to get down ... you might need help getting up again, but hey, whatever!

 -  o "
My momma really dance like a grandma  that shit so funny mane
Dusbtep  Dance skrillex and Alvin (try it out)  va 
puphead doing a lil dance makes me so happy
 olivia said come here come here theyre doing the dance
Who is able to gift me the new dance bunny hop
" When you get the choice to sit it out or dance, I hope you dance."
I hate everyone that give haters and awful words because they will always going to dance.
  This isnt twerking uts cultural appropriatiun.. Twerking is a dance this is some sort of clown shake
I cant wait to dance on a team again I miss dancing sm
 Elected Democrats trying to dance their way out of impeaching are making me sick. Cowards.
"Item shop for today, new skin that was leaked this afternoon ""Nitehare"" along with is pickaxe ""Steel Carrot"" and a "
 Thanks a lot man.will try Make mine tomorrow cant even make a step of that dance 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Ladies Night by Kool &amp; The Gang on 
 Only one Ill let you argue is Cole because you just have a distaste lol tech has amazing storys abou 
"a slow country song just came on and it suddenly made me wanna slow dance under the stars to that song, oddly specific but mooood "
 Had to come to the Baltimore show cause me and lyss are going to Columbus tomorrow for dance Gavin dance! Lol
" is offering Open Rehearsals next week! If you are interested in joining this talented adult team, th "
 Thank you Barbwires Radio for playing our song from our rare 89/91 cassette Dance Of The Cobra. Get 
I don't wanna slow dance in the daarrrkkkkkk~
" Mavericks. 90's-present. Check out ""All you do is bring me down"" live on you tube. It'll make you dance and grin!"
Need a hanky for  HANKIEparty at  tomorrow night? Gotcha covered. I have Bla 
I just did whole dance routine in the mirror waiting for my shower to get hot
It feels so unnatural to me to sit in the passenger seat what do i hold on to as i dance?!
        
"    The vibe of the song is so so good, my 1yr old niece tends to dance every time when she hears it "
. this reminds me of your PowerApps! 
That little tongue flick though  paypigs femdom findom weak losers fuck horny tongue dance fetish cuck 
" COUNTRY DANCE, YEEEEEEEEEEEEEHAWWWWWWWWWWW"
 not letting Maloney dance around an answer!! inners
- Got a song you want us to play email us  TheBlast  Dance
"Remember in 2011 when we finished reading A Dance With Dragons? Thinking, ""Wow, I can't wait for The Winds of Winte "
Phantom of the Opera pose... Going on  6 Pacific with a lizzo spotlight (her new record drops today) and di 
"check out these mediocre videography skills of mine 

but really. make sure you visit these dummies tomorrow for "
Fun times at the Father Daughter Dance! 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Paradise
 - Lost Stories
 "
do you think i stopped asking for a dance cover for very very very from taehyung
  Please make sure you dance a lot!!
 We shall dance 
" Yeah, until they have to dance. Then its Yvie kickin all kind of a**!"
when will we get kokobop and the rest song dance practice 
    The son of my shoemaker wasn't born when MJ died....but a single ment 
5678!  Dance friends are the best friends!  royal.s.kreations shondaduckett thanks for the royal kreation! 
Preston really just made me dance at the register before he bought me a dress
"Class tonight 7-8 PM 
 ::
 &amp; victoriamonet - Monopoly

Come CatchTheGroove 
 "
"Another BIG CLASS &amp; good social last night THURSDAY 4-18-19 .  .

It started with ANNUAL  30 % OFF SALSA LA style / "
  (Just Dance)
The beaver Point Hall on Salt Spring Island is the home of Saltspring Dance Temple. Such a beautiful historic build 
"Billie, I havent done that dance in years"
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB See You Again by Wiz Khalifa Feat. Charlie Puth on  
Let's go baby and dance now The Walker by Fitz And The Tantrums on  
omg btch please dont ever dance again 
"Yall, Im DJ-ing an elementary dance rn. Shoot your song suggestions"
"Alright, well would you dance with me? What do you say?"
        
"  Jimin bts
Jimin cute
Jimin chimmy
Jimin dance
Jimin handsome
Jimin pink
Jimin hair
Jimin "
 The federal deep state does not feel pressured to respond to the migrant crisis because it mainly im 
" Im not sure if zombies feel pain, but thanks to Michael Jackson, we know they can dance."
  Classics not sing/dance-alongs fads that fade with time. I bet nobody in most villages can sing 
ths dance is so dumb oh my god everyone is literally running away grrr
 quite plainly you lied and no political verbal dance can change that. 
First City Dance opens competitive season  
"So far, ice dance in the U.S. at the junior level is reminding me of this:  "
"REPEAT AFTER ME

DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE
DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE
DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE
DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE
DI "
i still want young wings dance practice 
   Ill dance to that  
EVERY FRIDAY we have a Norwalk's most iconic dance party with DJ Edgewood! Troupe429 has the most disco balls of a 
" worried and warn Aron not to do it, but its ended with Aron doing the dance smoothly &amp; funny lol. "
 The dance moves especially
"Join PlanetFord45 at Stampede Houston for Randall Reed, the Ford Whisperers Lime Crush line dance contest kick of "
Dead Can Dance - Spleens
Dance concert in the Eccles performing arts building!!
SkyHouse Music: R&amp;B with an alternative twist and DIY indie inspiration. Hip-Hop. Rock. R&amp;B. Reggae. Acoustic. Danc 
HYUNA LIP HIP dance cover by Anna Moreira (  3 min 
Big Raunchy - Her Name Is Lifehiphop rap music dj love rapper beats trap artist producer rnb art 
  Guy whats the name of this song I wanna try the dance 
" I finally found time to watch After, and it was the best thing I watched all year. I cried during the wed "
I need a Meredith grey and Christina yang dance sesh rn.
 Get it Keke!  That song makes you dance
  On saying that...happy feet could dance
  SHE IS A FREAKING Q U E E N AND THE DANCE COMPANY SHES FROM WON WOD SEASON 2 ALONG WITH H 
[Dance Video] Olamide  Spirit  Naijaloaded 
"  Just remember every guy or gal who has ever done a little happy dance or shouted ""whahoo"", "
" Damn right. The only reason we would want to preserve a relationship with an amoral, authoritarian q "
"Oh my gahhhhhhhhh!!!!! 

Hey, you! Remember when we used to dance for days??? "
"If I could, Id run to you

Dance forever, NiaKia "
friend dance 10 m LED Lamps Backdrop for Wedding Party 100 pcs Set 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing My Favorite Mistake by Sheryl Crow on  
"I wanna have a few drinks, dance, and just have a good time."
"jinnie needs to practice dance now,, i need to get better :("
" Id dance to forget, but I dont want to forget"
"Tomorrow is 4/20. Do you have your Hookah Ready?  's ""Smoke The Hookah"" (and dance) "
"Also, as far as safety videos go... Air France is the best, no contest. It's like a weird interpretive dance starri "
 Katsuki needs a lap dance from ochako on his birthday
un max de sons hit and  dance enjoy  X-ite Project Feat. Doobie Rush - One Of A Kind   
"41. Thank u, next
42. Moonlight 
43. Right there
44. The way
45. Honeymoon Avenue 
46. Dance to this
47. REM
48. Pr "
"pop en espaol is  like literally,, beautiful corny lyrics but w/ an amazing beat that makes u wanna dance??? noice"
YAAAAAAS LITTLE BLINK YOU DANCE TO THAT DDU DU!!! 
Anyone down to gift me this dance to match my bunny from the dead I would really appreciate it  
 u don't dance Zanku and be laughing this hard
"The story of one woman and her journey into Love through the sights and sounds of India, Lord of the Dance. "
        
  Fantastic... if they can dance like this on the floor with all this passion... then y 
Now playing I Owe You One by Shalamar music best hits rock pop dance on  
Theres a Dead Dreams: Grateful Dead Dance Party Spun By Charlie Miller playing tonight. Debating on going but not sure how its gonna be
"Social Weekend 
| Dance &gt;&gt; BongoS Bingo (London) | Bingo &gt;&gt; Classic Grand Presents Ravers Bingo (Glasgow) | "
I never know how to respond when people ask me what I like to do for fun bc all I really do other than work/eat/sle 
" The Mueller report in interpretative dance, imagine Barr in  a black unitard"
     why is the Defqon anthem still not available on the usa iTunes Store? 
" 

 Precisely.  which is why my lips are sealed darling. Whatever it is you're digging for from me, i "
[ Update ] jaehyunspics: Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
I just went to a dance competition for a bunch of my schools dance orgs and they have a kpop cover group (which I 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : The Sound of Goodbye &amp;40;Remix&amp;41;
 - Perpetuos Dreamer
 "
"Don't die for the world
market in gold and oil
She still got her 
Independence
from the ruler
[Independence Dance] Gotch"
"So, this lady is here entertaining us with great dance steps. 
It's still  in the building for "
"Me: *barely keeping up with life bc school, work, dance, volunteering and church*

Also me: I think Im gonna get a "
"Y'all wanna see me dance like a fuckin dumbass, play any song from Youngblood and watch me go"
"They study u bf they even make their 1st move. We worked in the same place &amp; he had access to my resume, address, D "
Dance move goals: los de Dave Gahan.
chicken dance with woochan 
I know Im not the only one who does the little dance she does when shes preforming Womans World... especially wh 
 Thats a nice dance
"Sugs doing a happy dance hearing $200M franchise fee. ~19% annualized RoR on his $30M investment in 2008. 
DOOP"
 The Russian bot Elizabeth Warren is doing her rain dance? 
 When are you endorsing Trump a 3rd time? Also would you rather dance w Manafort or Flynn at Mar a Lago?
everytime i listen to just dance i think of carry on and simon and baz because i listened to the song on loop while reading it
"Check out Pulse 90s DANCE Various Artists, RARE 2-CD Set USED! UPC: 698368103725, OOP  "
"Congrats to TCMC Giveaway winner Jason Earles and his wife Addie!  They are huge TX Country fans, dancing to Brando "
"ShakeDownRadio with  :

Hip-Hop RnB EDM Dance House and Club Tunes 

on . FreeDownload "
"Let's have some SUN at Sunny Beach of Bulgaria. Be a part of some great Parties with Music, Dance and Drinking as "
homecomingbeyonce the blackness. The craft. The talent. Lifetimes of preparation before they even start rehearsing 
 Stay up til midnight then play the Sabre Dance.
"All the dancers in coming to America are light skin with long 3c hair ... twww on top of that, they do that corny a "
" Me on October 1st, but with worse dance moves."
 Honestly Syd let's just get platonically married our cats are brothers and were cool and cute like wh 
"My physical interpretation of the 

dance DanceOverStyles getdown DSPlayers popping "
 PinkMoon I see what you did there. A little Van Morrison for your dance tonight?
don't say a word while we dance with the devil
BEBE REXHA - LIL WAYNE - dance with somebody  RideTheWave NowPlaying
"THE SHADOW KNOWS!!
Magicus Faceofnewschoolfreestyle 
More2Come "
"One of the best nights of my life. Not only did I finally get to see my favorite band, but I was able to dance and "
niven lowrie has a dance move where he spews in a sink and sucks it back up
 My favorite moment was when they did that funny little dance in front of the goblin to get through the locked door
"Good morning!!!

JHOPE, will you please dance on All In- ZaeHD &amp; CEO? Or freestyle? Hahahaha pleaaaaaaseee!!!!!! "
"  It's like Evolution of Dance-Kosher
"
" Im native american, so when i hear you say ""war chanter"" i think of native history and how its filled "
" Melania-a go-go, like the dance clubs from long ago."
jaehyunspics Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
watching this game is almost like watching two wallflowers at a high school dance TMLTalk hnic hockeynight StanleyCup
Im outside the dance studio and I just want to barge right in and dance. Like the music is fire right now! 
    How do you know that Brian gives some profits from coffee 
 I'm going to dance to remember
" listen to music, surround urself with positive people, go for a run, dance"
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Pull Up To The Bumper (Airplay Mix) by Grace Jones Vs. Funkstar De Luxe on 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Make Her Say by Kid Cudi on  
DANG GIRL A DESENDANTS DANCE PARTY AND OOGIE BOOGIE...SIGN ME THE HECK UP!! YESSS DISNEY YESSS!!  
        
Just realized I dance like John Boyega hahaha. That turny move thing is my signature move HAHAHA
Photek - End Of The Line  TheBlast  Dance 
the choreo 2 boy w luv is so so cute.. seein yoon dance it warms my heart
 I will scream and cry and dance
 im smol hes smol he likes to dance i like to dance and welp hes very shy when he gets complements
Catch this beauty tonight for twerk class! Still time to sign up for a fun Friday- join her tonight at 8:00 pm!! 
He can out dance Beyonce tho. For sure
"""I'm not mad, im laughing really! Lol! Dance puppets! I love the tears!"" "
"SOTOL with Ingebrigt  tonight at  We kickoff a of night of dance music DJs, we play 9:30 shar "
"   I agree, the dance is so shit"
"Hoseok was surprised. Hes always made it a point to avoid the topic whenever Jeongguk shows up at dance practice, "
"Let's dance to the drummers beat
Let's see where he hides his meat
Let's rub it all over our feet
Let's dance to the drummers beat"
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Heal The World by Michael Jackson on  
You follow the DoD Principles of Information  and you put out information. What doesn't meet 
Jeongguk walked into the empty dance studio. Music was blasting as Hoseok was already practicing the routines until 
"Purchase Now!  

""Gray Matter"" - Electronic x Minor x Dance x Daft Punk Alike x SpaceX Type Instrumental 
Producer: "
For my dance final the prof had us write about our fav dance scene in any production and I wrote about this scene l 
So tell me why were talking when you dance so good
Roomie and I decided to literally dance in the rain and stop and smell the flowers. We heard the rain so we went fo 
Dance with me through the night. 
Add a slight heel to my outfit and I immediately believe I know how to tap dance
I just want to dance and laugh and let myself cry all at the same time and just embrace my painful damn emotions lo 
bigbang_official choi_seung_hyun_tttop  bigbang badboy dancing dance choreo badgirl kpop kpopstyle 
"I Dream of Dance
With Shakti and Nataraja
and I Awaken 
To Being the Live Life Dream in True Blissful Self
~~
Two "
President temper tantrum will punish his former counsel Don McGahns law firm by hiring another firm for representa 
The bigger problem is that [Lene] doesn't dance for gross men which means most of our readers are out of luck!
Today at the museum art dance acreativedc 
" Me too, but we can dance in the courtyard, with sweet summer sweat"
"your brothers:

kwon soonyoung - your big brother and he is working as a choregrapher of a famous dance school. "
"This car is flying quickly. Thanks, Lisa for being willing to dance."
 Blood on the dance floor. 
"I'm watching you..
,
.
,
. 
wedding mehndi smachoreography smadanceandfitness mehndidance dance danceteacher "
"How can we dance when our earth is turning?
How do we sleep while our beds are burning?
How can we dance when our e "
 take some dance classes please. i cringed
its apparently so important to go see this car that i had to cancel plans i had with my friends to do work for dan 
"* Free DL * | ""Incognito - Always There ft. Jocelyn Brown (TRP Remix)"" | mixed by  | Dance House "
"''Wake up Lahen, why's that rented car smashed up? Why'd you stick a toy car in your buttocks? Why'd you tie your p "
 Just dance has two versions a motion sensor and an optical the star wars one was only ever designed fo 
Still mad I missed that call from beyonce asking me to dance at Coachella
"  ""Alim's fiance thinks he's playing football with the lads, but he's really getting in practi "
 The manner which Donald Trump Sr attempted to tap dance and side step Ryans questions immediately let 
"The way my baby dance, like she got ants in her pants"
"Saturday its going down!!! Be there early!!! Cheeeeeee 
.
.
.
.
.
music love jam down esketit bash "
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  dancehall reggae JSO dancehalllink reggaemusic
" 
Goes back &amp; does a couple scenes with Reynolds. Questions the healing factor. Film fight scene pa "
 Bubbles  Sparkles  Leotards and dance floors (and the not pictured previously consumed )... just a girl in he 
  they be getting crazy with their daggering music/dance lmao
 Thats a nice dress!
"Rodney Dangerfield: So what? So let's dance!

"
dance for you 
i never went to prom so im stuck on the dance floor
      Not pushing forth a conspiracy defense for Tr 
Risotto faz a Hat Kid Dance em Jojo 
The video where the members dance for Shownu is the perfect thing to work out to
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Remind Me To Forget
 - Kygo Ft. Miguel
 "
the fact that I've been at the dance studio for over 5 hours 
"    Duran Duran, Gary Newman, OMD, Ultravox, Tears for Fears, 8 "
 To dance.
 You just have to look at the legs she's using to dance it to know you're about to waste your mb.
jaehyunspics : Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance   
ATLANTA!! Im coming to spin for you this Easter Sunday at SugarATL! Im spinning open to close at this fantastic 
 shut up matthew dont u got sum a white person to tap dance for 
Barn Dance MortimerFarmsAZ 
"Sheena is really an amazing girl! See her heartwarming moment with her dance crew HERE:
"
"Tonight is shaping up to be a good night. With a small crowd gathering we are having a blast!

There is still plen "
"Just think about it... Ariana Grande is gonna be 80 someday, and shes gonna be all wrinkly, snatched bald, and the "
  My PE teachers were sadistic bigoted shits &amp; took great joy in humiliating me in public un 
Andy Mineo &amp; Wordsplayed - DANCE (You See It) (1)
Southbound 2 and 3 trains have resumed after we cancelled our dance party :(
It was fun party tonight! My love to dance is increasing day by day 
law school has warped my mind into thinking about trademark/copyright claims every time i go on social media lol i 
K so now I definitely miss being in dance and preparing for and executing a performance and just feeling that energ 
"     Can dance, sing. Athletic, gorgeous wife, plenty "
the dance remix to suga howd you get so fly is very low tier
    I would put the responsibility on my child. I never did dr 
"DJ Capcik will be here tonight at 10pm to throw down tunes for you.
Come get on the dance floor
realwoodstock "
Winner Winner Mexican Dinner! I just said two seconds before ... I never win anything! I won I won. @ The Round-U 
 When they tell you no more dance breaks
  Game over... shall we dance deep state? The BEST PRESIDENT EVER is about to go medieval 
It's Mostly Cloudy &amp; 68F outside. A cloudy day for house !! House mix sets here:  house 
And then we start to dance
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Heaven Must Be Missing An Angel by Tavares on  
 Dance baby by boy Pablo
His poorly choreographed dance moves did serve a purpose however; it distracted the employee. 
"Hey  did you just hear the organist at the Gaaaden playing a theatre organ rendition of ""Dance Macabre"" by "
" Go to the dive bar anyway, have a few drinks, and dance"
"prior to advancing this theory, just to catch everyone up, casablanca was my receiver. he's being hung upside down "
"Flexin Poverty 

Rise Above The B.S While You Dance In The Rain "
 Can i get a dance like that from my dearhclaw friends
 Mr.President doing his happy dance. whinylittlebitch realtime HBO 
FRESH AFRICAN TINGS Can you do the BUKA Dance?  afrobeats
 Dance for you is THAT SONG 
"It's April 19, 2019 at 08:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
If youre looking to dance WavCap is the only place to be tonight.  got a set +  
and also the genre of music and dance he does too. i really can't stand yalls high horses
"PARTY FOR ONE IF YOU DONT CARE ABOUT ME, I JUST DANCE FOR MYSELF BACK ON MY BEAT"
 Me woken up just now by my neighbors 2am dance party
 I NEED YOUR HELP!! so I got invited to this formal dance for school and idk how to do makeup :(( and 
Always be like a water. Float in the times of pain or dance like waves along the wind which touches its surface. 
You're tuned into CLUBLIFE by  629. New dance records every week selected by Tisto.  Tisto CLUBLIFE
Bitch I can fuckin DANCE these white girls could nevaaaaaaa
" Don't be sad, dance and sing about any old thing. "
Hey Google play Latin club music on House Party...its time to dance a salsa!
Shut up and dance with me!  
Update jaehyunspics: Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
If you and your sisters didnt dance to this song together growing up I feel sorry for you. My sisters and I had a 
"   Will be doing a ""Please let it be Saturday "" dance....."
I was watching dream in a dream&amp;my grandma was like is that who were going to see&amp;I was like well hes in a diff 
Terry Rozier and JR Smith did the fusion dance and became Terrence Ross
"My neighbor took my little sister to the father-daughter dance because my dad couldnt make it home in time to go, seriously so cute."
 You better be bringing Just Dance to HRX
 I want to see BTS do the dance for this song 
a radio is turned on and showers a sea of static dance music that makes the fox dance.
[ Dave Upchar ] Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
"Blue Ivy can sing, dance and rap. Oh, btw as a hobby she likes to bid on expensive pieces of art. A QUEEN."
"Led by event staff, children learn tinikling, which is a traditional Filipino folk dance. "
 My dance moves are better
 Jungkook can dance infront of me 
"If you take yo man to the strip club, buy him a lap dance, and freak out on him cause he talks to that chick later, thats on YOU lol "
"LIVE with our Easter cosplay playing Just Dance!
We are going to have random giveaways throughout the night.
Songs "
"Full in-depth, track by track review for Asia by  now available on the Official Cottonear Website! Lin "
"Free dance party at  tonight!

RSVP:  "
Memphis Finest Line Dance Group is in attendance!!  at Premiere Palace Ballroom 
"Josh: I can't dance.
Taylor: I can't either. I'm REALLY white."
Our 7th ACTing Up Childrens Theater Summer Camp is filling up fast! This year the program will feature 4 professio 
" Aw what a gig , well as Ive barely any voice left I think your right . So chuft to hear Sure tonight "
LIKE if u would ask the dead lady to dance!! Julia remembers formal occasions being more fun  
"With Hobi. I already promised him that Id help him go over some routines for dance.

Taehyung couldnt help the "
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy  via 
"One day in a galaxy far far away was Courtney, a nerd. That day all they wanted to do was dance because they were f "
"Welcome to the Moulin Rouge 
.
.
.
.
Thank you ydcproductions 
moulinrouge dance montrealdancers fbf "
"Meanwhile, Jeongguk put all of his built up frustrations into school, for once, and he actually started attending d "
"   Ah ah,so it's true U can't dance? "
"Take me out! To the dance hall!
Let me out! To the ball dance!
I want to be with you (and) dance 'til the sun rise up
Take Me Out!!"
" Indian movies are hilarious to me....one setta bad acting, exaggeration and almost every scene must ha "
 Dance and muay thai muna tas meditation hahaha daming classes bes exciting 
"Taehyung's starting to get the picture.

They move across the dance floor gracefully as Taehyung sighs.

""Was it yo "
 Better than how I dance ;_; 
 She's busy doing the 'I told you so'' dance.
all this mf does is dance....we get it ur the king of dance 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Reach Out by Hilary Duff on  
 morning hyungg! let's dance! 
"Stock report: Utah's stadium gift, USC's roster upgrade, UCLA's rough stretch and the Big 12's contrasting dance wi "
my suspicions about what they were doing were confirmed when they all stood up and did the everybody mad dance together
Getting ready for 7th dance canesfan thenewmiami     
I do the floss dance more than I floss my teeth which is hardly ever.
" What she means, we take em bad paleface behind wigwam. We no smoke em peace pipe. We no happy In "
Danceem All by TRI4TH NowPlaying 
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts - The New York Times 
"Dio makes me dance with him, but, he gets really into it and I get somewhat uncomfortable yet fascinated with his ability to shimmy so fast."
*church dance* 
Plastic Love is such a good 80s song...the best makes you wanna dance even tho the lyrics are sad...the juxtapositi 
"And always take care of you first!

 meditation
 journaling 
 lift
 go outside for a walk 
 talk to a healthy "
"when bangpd says dance and i give jimin a solo
"
"Micheal jackson changed music as it is.
Invented dance steps
Can sing better than beyonce
Has one of the best song "
"What do you do when:

- The last of your people cross the red sea and your enemies drown?

You dance.

- What do y "
"Enjoying sounds of ""2018.10.31 - Amine Edge &amp; DANCE @ Exe Club, Sofia, BG"" by Amine Edge &amp; DANCE nowplaying on "
Thinking abt demyxs dance water dance
           
" Congrats for your anniversary and thank you for the giveaway 
My favorite moments are when they t "
When I first saw Beyonc do the dance routine I was like this is Kayla Pittman from the Dancing Dolls. Cause I foll 
 Tomorrow... we dance! Lmao
"Jammie Jam Rules

1. WASH EVRYTHING &amp; USE DEODORANT 
2.If you not gone be lit stay home
3.If she dont wanna dance "
"I dance like nobody's watching,
I sing a song like nobody's listening.

That's my natural behavior "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Relax (New York Mix) by Frankie Goes To Hollywood on 
 Ill be happy when BTS drops the dance practice for Dionysus
'The Train Robbers remind me of a young James McMurtry in the best of ways: you can dance to them all night long o 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Love Is In Control (Finger On The Trigger) by Donna Summer on 
"text i just got 
dress up like crazy bitches and dance?"
" This interview says it all at 2:20. She refuses to dance to Miller's bullshit tune, yet still doesn't "
" more bodily humors and a dance remix of  ""Too Young To Fall In Love""....too much?"
Hang out for  BehindTheSong as we look back on a deeply spiritual man who kept us on the dance fl 
I just finished day 109 of the  plan 'WordLive - Year One'. Check it out here: 
  Happy to admit that I did a wee dance of joy when Blair fucked the Tories into touch. 
Ok I have a confession to make. When you first meet the twins in Nadias route and get the option to dance with one 
BCLFashionShow dance team doung it big things    
"New artwork for sale! - ""Dance at Le Moulin de la Galette"" -   "
Dance off but its Jakey cover
" TA PRA SAIR O DANCE PRACTICE, STAY TUNED"
 Thanks. I doubt they are but who knows... watch the game. Dance a little. Hugz bud.
"The Year of Our Lord, 1771: It was a sweaty morning in London, and a wispy thing called Astarte emerged from a hole "
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
So totally cute this Friday... HOFdance 
"""Nature is so powerful, so strong. Capturing its essence is not easy - your work becomes a dance with light and the "
"   Sarkar etc want a type of Communism ""You can dance to""  (whatever crap that means) d "
 Babes Michael cannot sustain powerful flawless vocals for hours on end while dancing. He wasn't a vocal 
 All those aprs broadcast 90s dance beats singalongs... we will always have those.
" And I dont mean look wise, I just mean him in general w his cute dance moves n everything. Ya know Lil Uzi is adorable Erin"
" Everybody,its SUGA. We finally reached the point for our very first dance practice for our title song. It "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Ready For Your Love
 - Gorgon City ft. MNEK
 "
"I'll have been in the airport for seven hours 
 before my plane messages due to delays. I could :

A: Complain.
B: "
" If Dems quit, Trump, Fox and the GOP will dance on their graves for 18 months without stop"
 I get that bey had twins and rehearsed for a couple of months and she went through a lot but Ariana 
"So  has announced their Euro-elections candidates list.
Would it make tactical sense to support only their "
Seeing bad dance makes my heart hurt
ACs Kill this Love dance cover is a must watch video.
" BLASPHEMY! On this day of the Lord, you advise music? What next? Dance? Art thou the devil in man's clothing"
"The Friday Night FREESTYLE DANCE PARTY is live NOW!!!
Download the La Radio Live App at  "
         T 
        
Thanks homie  I love this dance too   
its not that bad that bts cant speak english because we would never have had any dance practices like own and Im 
favorite dance move ?  moonwalk or gliding 
 ok I depend on you for the dance steps o/
        
Holy mother. I went into this  Homecoming with zero expectations other than to dance out the week and I am 
CMFatEC CMFprimevideo  The ability to dance and film throughout the same day was great because it 
Look at our happy boys.. Jaehyun looks so precious doing his little dance  
"Like I'll admit my taste in music and other things is strange, music wise I listen to a lot of rock/punk/pop-punk/e "
"Kick up your heels for the weekend! The always adorable missjulisboutique wearing the PACE OMBR legging
. "
I sabi dance sha should i post videos?
Good morning everybody. I think Im going to single out someone every morning to say hello to. Just like Miss Helen 
what my husband and i are gonna dance to at our wedding 
" Yo she choreographed that hard-hitting, neck-breaking-by-just-watching-it dance?? Imagine being this talented!"
 Sweety is definitely off beat beyond words but wow y'all just jumped on her. At least she's trying 
   Joey Dee - GodFather Twist Dance -  -  - JoeyDee RocknRoll 
I love the happy dance the cows do. 
"Dont hesitate to contact us, we have the ideal business plan for you.
Call us! Our advisors are ready to give you "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Everybody's Free 2016 (Featuring Rozalla) by Florian Kempers on 
"When you make dance fun, everyone moves! Lights, JustDance, Action! BHJHphysEd Dance Move GetActive "
"Your potential is endless.


dancekids kidsdance danceclass dancelesson dance ohio "
 what will i get if i dance with youuuu? heeum?
"Look what we got a sneaky peak at on Keris Memory Feed, today  Judging on the TV series Dance Moms in Cali  "
"Now she encouraging me to start stripping...... do what youre good at, dance for them ones "
I just finished day 5 of the  plan 'Awed By Christs Resurrection: 6 Days Of Decrease'. Check it out her 
"so the dance studio...it was fun, i will probably go there again! also, didnt know i was somewhat good at dancing until today lol."
Ok but ... Red animated bears dance and sing about how their buttholes are clean and that's supposed to make me wanna buy Charmin?
 THE DAY THE 21ST CENTURY GIRL HALLOWEEN DANCE VIDEO CAME OUT
 When will you collab with BTS's J Hope ?? we're waiting... I imagine you guys rapping singing ant eventual 
My signature jukebox song is either Butterfly by Crazy Town or Last Dance With Mary Jane by Tom Petty
 slip of the tongue. Why didnt u correct itself? We know ur a liar. U can dance the republican dance of l 
Rainy Friday night. So what do I do? Dance around my kitchen. Some creatures are not amused. cats catsofinstagram 
What the women that take dance classes come into GoodLifes studio rehearsing look like 
 I'd rather watch the pimpiest batflip ever over whatever weird ass dance NFL players are going. justme
  Please wear the kimonos.    Please .   Maybe dance the Kung FU fighting song as an introd 
"NEW dance video!
check it out &lt;3 
Had so much fun shooting this.

"
lonely dance makes me violently sob dont ask why
"Big tiddie boy and friends - my sister 2019

But Id say, theyre a really talented group of guys who can sit and "
"   Fourway dance @ some PPV someday! Itll be bigger than Mainia! TheMan, "
"I just post these killer tunes whether it be old r'n'b...reggae..rock steady....punk...rock n roll, post punk or po "
"Finishing Halo: Reach tonight! And with that, we will have completed all of the Halo Campaigns! Show starts at 9 PM "
I had a couple convos with Beys dance captain Ashley at a video shoot in January &amp; had no idea who I was talking 
Now playing on WGMU: Skeleton Dance by Teleman from Breakfast
   He then made a cheap jab at Shorten saying he can't do those dance moves. Wh 
"""There's an army on the dance floor
It's a fashion with a gun my love
In a room without a door
A kiss is not enoug "
if u ever wondered why it takes girls so long to get ready its bc they just dance the whole time
UnexpectedCalendarThemes 12 Clare Quilty Dance Moves . . 
 after getting the wrong number from Devon and having a strange conversation  with that person: in my d 
  Agree its disgusting i never do that to my dad i bet if AGP was alive michael would do i 
A fun Friday night celebrating 40th Anniversary Joys Dance Co! A jazzy table spread! Chocolate fudge cake with a wh 
"  Yes, Yes...a Music Festival. Dance that shit off. Raise money and give it to all the candidates."
Just booked my flight out to WA next month. We on when I slide out there for Leauas Memorial dance program.
 Patiently waits for the next dance audition .
I wish I knew how to dance lmao
 the way the whole dance is a fitness program
Its the 6th or 7th anniversary when I had my last dance comp. I really miss it a lot. Basketball was really for me 
   Joey Dee - GodFather Twist Dance -  -  - JoeyDee / RocknRoll 
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Transfused Progressive Pt2 by rg2clive2 Listen again or download  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Strong by Robbie Williams on  
"Purchase Now!  

""R.E.M. Dream"" - Electronic x Dance x Gallop x Zen Pop Type Instrumental 
Producer: DJ.TabooMix Ji "
 Thats an awesome fortnite dance move!
I should really start making plans on friday nights because it normally results in me drinking wine and learning a dance ???
 Lord of the dance!
" Lol! If you go, dance for me! "
user @ shawn mendes doesnt really know how to dance but stillll 
Look what popped up in my Memories todayJudging for the popular TV series Dance Moms @ Imagine Dance Challen 
"[CHOREOGRAPHY] BTS () 'MIC DROP' Dance Practice  via 

this is great "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Papa Was a Rollin' Stone by The BB Band on  
So blessed! Congratulations Faith on becoming a member of the Carolina Coquettes Dance Team!  
I could probably get about 12 seconds into a Michael Jackson dance routine before they'd have to amputate one of my legs.
  And they say white people can't dance
" Dance: That was fast

Music: ......

Lyric: Dang...."
I love interpretative dance presentations of detailed legal documents! 
HIS DANCE MOVES IN MERCY YUH HE BOPPING 
 Lol that nigga is the most talented human being on earth. He can act sing dance and paint lol
"If theres anything Ive learned about people in London its that they cant dance. 

Fun fact: They also love music between 2013-2015."
 yeahhhhhhh. you just reminded me why i stopped watching. not to mention the HORRIBLE secondhand emb 
Best rock pop dance music Now New Year's Day by U2 on  
"Events include dance parties, including one at the Newcastle Publick House, and reggae concerts. The Highbrow medic "
The dream of being accepted to the Juilliard School in New York City has come true for two dance students at the 
  Another dance related law suit? 
" Two of my favorite types put together. Neat design, and an equally neat beta concept, its pre evos are "
  Issa dance 
Im just trying to slow dance old fashioned by Bruno Major with someone.
"PROFILES (JENNIES FRIENDS)

kim jisoo  theatre major, best friend since birth, would die without her
bae joohyun "
"my very favorite pesach song:

DID I MENTION I LIKE TO DANCE- Flynt Flossy (  via "
Its time we dance with the truth
morning  dance wimme~?? 
 can we also play the chicken dance
" On that World of Dance show this might be considered poor dancing,
but in a clip of a cam girl teasi "
    Conservative news outlets dont see any of this as a big deal...liberal 
"Tonight!
Catch mur_mur_ma joe_xtinct_luevano neptune_rangel and chvngv at pricklyelder for their show Cazadores de "
Parov Stelar - Demon Dance (Official Video) 
Stromae - Alors On Dance
 And the dance moves to go with it haha
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Transfused Progressive Pt2 by  Listen again or download  
"what i like about you, you really know how to dance"
Just watched a blackpink dance practice reaction and the pinks got body shamed 
"Big Raunchy - Sucka Free 
JULY, 2 ALL PLATFORMS hiphop rap music dj love rapper beats trap artist "
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Ran Kan Kan by Tito Puente on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby King by Years &amp; Years on  
"Call us at +971 55 907 7850 Dubai +966 50 469 1355 Spain +34 643737365 and know more about us.
Fun Funny "
" Lol she sings better in studio and live, better discography, she can dance while singing CB cant..."
isnt it appalling how locals by default are  a fan of western acts bc they could sing and dance at the same time o 
I love seeing couples dance and kiss and smile at festivals. It makes my heart happy  
my daddy did the thriller dance in the beginning
"Making him sing, dance, and call me Master~"
"  Alright. Whens the wedding? Babies? Give the white picket fence, Korean music bombing, d "
International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers 
"   Your voice sounds great with a dance beat, looking forward to hearing more  "
 i love how he wants to showcase his dance skills genius idol jumped out
my fam said about bts wen i was showing them vids do they sing live while they dance? . Oh U Have Set Urself Up F 
the boy almost burst out into dance moves 
"Fav j&amp;d dance  i adore them all but viennese waltz, salsa &amp; samba "
" AAAAAAAAAAAAAA OH MY GOD 

ALSO IMAGINE HER TEACHING YOU HOW TO BELLY DANCE AND SHE'S PUTTING HER HANDS "
A Billy Joel dance party in the kitchen is a great way to start the weekend!
If I had friends to sing and dance with 
 about to do a Just Dance Podcast with the  himself over at 
Theres still no Dionysus public dance covers that I can find and Im really excited to see one
"Theres only a day until Penns Dance Marathon which is tomorrow 10am-4pm!! Im 62% done with my goal of $740, whic "
Because you need more Robert Downey Jr dancing to The Safety Dance in your life 
Least fave j&amp;d dance  cha cha sOrry but i still love it its just my least fav oops 
 It kills me when people try to put Chris and Beyonc in the same category. Beyonc is lightyears beyon 
Hi there! We're now playing The New Dance Republic - Take It To The Top (Epstein's Massive Bongo Mix) ...... catch 
 Dude Im ready lol i just wanna dance 
ACTRESS JANHVI KAPOOR SHARED A VIDEO ON HER INSTAGRAM WHICH DESCRIBES EXCITEMENT FOR HER FIRST-EVER DANCE PERFORMAN 
I will fuck the party up with my dance moves 
"How weird would it be if I broke out into interpretive dance rn? 
Currently listening to:
Shooting Stars- Bag Raiders"
"Human Nature (ending dance)
Live at Wembley,1988. "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Devil In Disguise 
 - Marc Benjamin + JPB Ft. Syon + Yung Fusion
 "
"oh i wanna dance with somebody, i wanna feel the heat with somebody yeah wanna dance with somebody... with somebody who loves me"
Gowdy: Democrats are going to drag out their investigations until 2020 |   Democrats doing a shit dance!
"  Well they can dance better than you, but if you like bts go ahead"
....i never gave a lap dance lol oh thats a must
"When somebody says WOW, you're like.. ""FANTASTIC BABY, DANCE!"". fangirl"
 Ojitos Negros by  on   ya Im in the mood to dance thanks pandora
" i want to go, just to dance a little i work at 5 too"
"Ready smooth weirdo, jump everyone's star. Why don't you wail and dance ""Oh oh oh!"""
mallika has come a long way and still has a long way to go but I wanna commend her for this beautiful and subtle da 
"once rksu gets to that level of dance, he's gonna learn how to dance in heels so he can one-up rklisa"
Can Stand to Reason speakers be superheros? Only if they can Fortnite dance! Video is courtesy of our one-and-only 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Looking For Love by Karen Ramirez on  
"  Hey, Liz is doing 1/1024th of a war dance."
nowplaying  - Everybody Dance Now (Extended Mix) label [Pineapple Jams] es el tema hitclubbin de la 
jojo was a savage on dance moms lets be real
Orleans - Dance With Me
" with On Cue Dance Company during BPI-PhilAmLife Awards Night.

ALISAHBONAOBRA  XFactorUK 
Disney "
events: 5j Dance Hall Grand Opening Party Featuring Dale Watson! 
 lol i've got a bowl of food next to me eyeing it like we're at a jr high dance waiting for each other to make the 1st move
Men that can dance &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
Now playing I Will Survive by CAKE music best hits rock pop dance on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Und Es War Sommer by Peter Maffay on  
 Lets see some of this energy in the newsroom next week Jason!! I want to see some high fives happening!! Some dance moves!!
"Come and see Ana Zgur's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance cheerleader  
 "
"Waiting to see all this energy on screens MrLocal May17th
KalakkaluMrLocalu in our  voice and all "
Tonight on my block...happy hour 7pm til 10pm see you there morethanadj djlaylo330 djing dj music djlife djs 
"This Mango punch got me wanna go dance in the ocean...  @ Taino Beach, the Bahamas "
"I can be in the greatest mood. Wanting to dance, sing, do homework, chores, workout.. basically be productive x10.. "
"* Free DL * | ""Ariana Grande - Break Up With Your Girlfriend (Country Club Martini Crew Remix)"" | mixed by "
"Very much YIKES, NYCB "
" CONG HAVE BROKEN ALL HONEST NORMS OF GOVT MACHINERY WORKING

HAVE PLANTED
MOLES
BHADHAWE
IN EVERY GOVT "
"  Also, I don't dance in the shower, that is a great way to break a hip."
   Not really Tobys point though. Nothing wrong with voting remain its the con 
Going to a regular club and charging niggas for a lap dance&gt;&gt;
Who was your first crush?  First crush??? Uhmmm. My partner during our dance performance way back when i was in 1s 
Invincible dance-break   
 The dance n all
"Our Sonic &amp; Choreographic Lab is tomorrow! Well have a keyboard, flutes, hand percussions, an autoharp, a t "
Ok clikkies I need your help do I pay my dance bills or buy some new Nike Air Force 1s
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music 
Am I the only one that has a dance session in the shower post an intense workout ?
"    Dance Music  Horses  Hot Latin Men.

Remember, this is a rehearsal for a video NOT "
"YouTube channel coming real soon you'll...sho love

cute model artist musician trending viral savage vlog "
"Dynasty - I Don't Wanna Be A Freak (1988)

 DANCE "
events: Social Friday Latin Dance Night 
i just pray someone actually recorded ateez sexy dance battle tonight  ateezinwarsaw
"Big Raunchy - Sucka Free July, 2hiphop rap music dj love rapper beats trap artist producer rnb art "
Do yall know the Scarn dance still?  
"Learn easy dance moves for any occasion Instead of learning complicated routines, you will learn ""simple"" and ""natu "
Choppa make em dance like Ayo and Teo
"One week till my trip! \(^O^)/ 

Happy dance time!  "
" last dance, want to???"
"I want to swim with your parents, so you'll go to the dance with me"
When you see R Truth performing the dance break with Lil Jimmy instead of you 
"FUCK ART, LET'S DANCE! - The Conqueror "
"*comes late to dance practice with a scooter*

See ya bitch"
"NO, I DONT WANT TO DANCE // Featured Short  animation dance shortfilm"
This has been fun but I need to get in some dance practice today.
Ohh they upload the mirror version for dance cover contest 
Boneless dance sitting still?! also  bro today was so weird straight nose was bleeding for 2 hours str 
" Feeling the vibes of a winner
A true winner knows how to dance and embarrass their friends and surrounding"
Just a while ago I was practicing this dance with my sister and she just KILLED IT at church....Im proud 
dance to this
" the song is great song to be have fun so that's why me and my members, enjoy it alot eventhough the choreo "
 Wondered if I would even like this series and now at Episode 6 I am bewitched by the series.  I so 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Danse Danse Danse by Makassy on  
Making tik toks w my niece make me feel old but also proud cuz she can actually dance lol
drop the homecoming dance routine 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Off The Wall by Michael Jackson on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Unforgivable by Armin Van Buuren Feat. Jaren on 
" Do your anti Barr dance,hope it rains then get back tome Poca. You insane people blow and blow whichever "
Children Shelf 
watching jonah dance is mesmerizing 
"This aint a Milly Rock, this a money dance"
"Planks drift as I do
 Spring colors dance through my mind
 I FUCKING LOVE MEMES"
Practice makes a rack liluzivert   taythelitmaster dance @ Valdosta State University Commencement 
"looks like i found my next major, which is a fine addition to my list of
lesbian dance theory
bagpipes
canada
nanny "
  You better tell your man to get up and dance with you
"[21:03] No Ar: Dance 2 Dance 783, com DJ Arvy "
Getting set for tonights DJ Dance Party W/ Karaoke Experience at Jennys Place! Sign-ups for the 2019 Duet-Karaoke 
namjoon directed this to all the no jams who say he can't dance 
" Dance: How does that even work.....then *mind: I will never understand this ;-;*

Music: Who knows

Lyric "
   Whoop whoop!!  Dance time! PeachPawty 
"The dance, the song, the facial expression, everything was perfect  "
fuck a swifter yall put the wetpads under your feet and dance through the crib like tom cruise in risky business
 No starting to dance
The Sandbox Dance Lounge
"***** SUPER HOT SINGLE - BRUK BACK!!!! *****
NewMusic OUT NOW ON SPOTIFY BrukBack DjSIN feat MajahTunder  "
" Does it.
Does it dance?
Please?"
Enjoyed classroom visits at Fisher today!  Super student engagement!  Constructing Rube Goldberg projects in Kevin 
JUST DANCE
  Am I the only that thinks these two have pretty great dance skills? 
 Dance with the night away
The most tragic death in Halloween (2018) was the little gay tween who just wanted to go to his dance classes.
" loud, hyperactive, delivers quality second-hand embarrassment to friends, pretty clingy, screaming, l "
"We like to party, dance with somebody... like you; we like to party, get super naughty with you, we like to dance, "
Check out my Ghost Production Gig on Fiverr:   EDM Dance Fiverr
slow dance in the dark
  PERIODT! I freakin dance in front of my bathroom mirror getting my life to that song
 high note in particular taste and his little dance after a thread:
"imagine wdw making a techno, uptempo dance infused track like spice up your life with everybody singing the verses "
NowPlaying on Prysm Dance Revival JOHN SCATMAN - Scatman - App: 
Idk if its this caffeine pill or just came for the music song by  thats made my energy level go 
"  Drink by myself, dance by myself"
 I just want a stud friend who I can dance on when we clubbing and take cute pics together &amp; that's not a 
..shall we dance??
Someone have a kitchen dance party with me as I do dishes all alone once again
"You've gotta dance like there's nobody watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like there's nobody listenin "
We gone make ya hoe dance with the devil
Why dont we just dance
Wa go a party and dance to the song on somebody son 
 i kno she cant dance thats why i would want her to go and learn  but lmfaooooo 
" A8. If this was ever suspected, either personally or in someone else's life I know, I would create a H "
My beautiful muses  for Wolford Hosery shot upstate at StudioNB inspire dance twins 
cant wait to teach my kids how to dance  
 Go dance cumbias Massore gonna be there
Im on that yac I wanna dance come get your man  
"My god, slow dance songs were so painfully awkward at high school semi formals"
dance to this 
no wayyy the girl who choreographed dionysus is also a dancer/choreographer for the lab?? i used to watch them when 
DJ CeeLow In The House Tonight For A Dance Party! Come Thru! djs1ent jammers CSP timetoplay (@ Charleston Sport 
     Lmao but what about his dance moves on Saturday !!!!?!??!?!!! 
Dionysus dance practice please!!
"Contestant 3 - Jordan Rice is a Junior, Sociology major with a minor in Dance. Jordan would like to have a career "
 YESSSSS IVE BEEN SAYING THEY NEED AN EAster dancE
" I vote ""Dance"""
I love pools. But I need to be doing dumb shit in there. Underwater dance battles &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
Now playing IreneCara - Flash Dance (What A Feeling) on Flaming Oldies
How about a dance? How about a dance with me... baila lola.. lolas mambo  ( suenan trompetas)...
  I think Kenny Williams really stole the show tonight.  Hopefully more casual WWE fa 
See ya  Headed to  from Brisbane! Virginia Tattoo  here they come! highlanddance 
 I totally forgot about the weird spoken word part about how to do the dance or whatever. So unsettling lol
"5 events happening tomorrow in Toronto:
1) International Childrens Day- Multicultural Dance And Art Festival @ 1:3 "
Luther Vandross - Dance With My Father  via    
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Soy Tan Feliz by Richie Ray &amp; Bobby Cruz on 
"excited, summer, shopping, happy dance, target, swimsuit, swimwear, bathing suit "
"Whoah!  What song is this!? Teacher Bobby, our amazing piano, voice and composition teacher, is playing a familiar "
wait was byul really doing a cover of that groups award show intro or something? i thought she was just doing her 
        
"Last night, I was wondering if Yujin and Seungyeon were gonna do a  dance time live again since it's been a while "
"Dance (ballet, jazz, hip hop, popping, rocking)."
"OnTheDecks with Me TONIGHT 4 WDP362dance radio



 "
"  Ten, Feeldog, Euijin for hip-hop, Jimin for modern dance... too bad not many people mentio "
   Hopefully you and  get to meet as she is the firecracker that bullied 
"Sat 4/20 
12pm TOKYO DANCE PARK dance897 
2pm Music Mix 
3pm radiodisco interfm897 radiko  "
"When our Bahaman Anole males start to feel territorial, sometimes it turns into an all-out DANCE PARTY! 

In this "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Innocence '12 by Jessy on  
Step into NationalDanceWeek with Champion UltraFuse styles. Shop now at  
Step into NationalDanceWeek with Champion UltraFuse styles. Shop now at  
"Candle lit first dance!
weddingportrait photographybusiness renophotographybusiness renotahoephotographer "
"We're following the piper, and we dance beneath the moon 
"
"[CULTURE] The International Cultural Fiesta will feature several cultural performances, henna tattoos, and cultural "
"How about not killing yourselves? You're trying to reach Turks' humanity? They have none, they'll dance on your gra "
Mad Dummy is doing an armless ska dance.
"DRAMA CLUB : ASTRO VOYAGE 
INTERGALACTIC QUEER DANCE SOCIAL

SAT MAY 11 @ 9:30 PM
 
PAY WHAT YOU CAN "
Omg its the dance outfit
Upcoming Event: Sat 27th Apr - Fourth Annual Latin Dance Fiesta  newyork dance 
"I think we should all respect white people from the jump. 
But dont compare they cant dance/they dont season fo "
The New Dance Single Can't You See  via YouTube NowPlaying EDM DanceMusic NewMusicFriday  
Need a little inspiration for your next karaoke night? Look no further:  
"there may come a day i will dance on your grave, if unable to dance i will crawl across it"
Now playing Swalla - Jason Derulo ft Nicki Minaj - Ty Dolla $ign - Easy Fitness Dance - Baile - Coreo Choreo__AAC_128k.m4a by !
Fun dance workouts that dont feel likeexercise 
THE BEYONC MOVIE MADE ME CRY AND DANCE UGH I LOVE HER
"Sing and dance all night with  
La Historia Contina Tour   "
"Who's ready to dance with  with  and  tomorrow night?? 

 "
" I'm for whatever works. Impeach, don't impeach, do a full moon dance in their underpants. I don't kn "
"Most ballet dancers retire by the age of 30. But two dancers, Wendy Whelan and Alessandra Ferri, have found ways to "
I use to try &amp; dance battle everybody at the kiddie discos 
"I'm watching some TV, dance on without me.. 
 Swing The Mood  NowPlaying NSR NP  Jive Bunny And The MasterMixe "
"Among the popular noms were  Radio Free Europe,  Gigantic, Joy Divisions Transmission, "
Don't miss Boston's only 18+ Dance Party!  Afropulse Presents: The Ultimate AfroBeat Dance Party at 
"GAY TIMES: ISSUE 494  THE KISS BOYZ 

Queer dance trio The Kiss Boyz are making their mark on the industry, we spo "
"Sheena is really an amazing girl! See her heartwarming moment with her dance crew HERE:
"
Symbol by Onur Ornem from Symbol - Single  on Late Night Dance Mix on   NowPlaying TheU AreYouReady
        
Zoologic Break Ninjaz | FRONTROW | World of Dance Orange County 2019 | WODOC19 
DanceYourBloxOff EGGHUNT2019 tip... Work together as a group and dance as a team. If the team wins then everyone 
Its Ducking Season as the Cherry Blossoms Dance in the Wind! cherryblossom walk blossom bloom life dancing 
somebody make a line dance to beyonc before i let go
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  DENNIS LLOYD -  Never Go Back 
Ecoutez nous sur : "
 Wen I was still a kid I dream and hope I want to be like Michael Jackson dance like him sing like 
georgie and i are doing OT but watching Homecoming while we work so its like a Beyonc dance off
"   he may not have, but he surely stood before the world after fighting "
"  Shes my favorite, hands down. She fears no one &amp; doesnt tap dance around trying to pleas "
        
"""they sing that well because they can't dance"" well..."
Such a beautiful night!!!! Good west African traditional music and dance performance. 
"Random...

I wanna watch Save the Last Dance."
 wanna reach out 2say thank you.2 u and the rest of the band. I've listen 2 u since I was 13. All the wa 
"My first official release!! Please show some love

No Stops 



House "
" Dude easy solution , look people will talk to you and ask you to play games if you do a fortnite dance in the girls locker room"
me singing any dance gavin dance song 
Dance with this fox!
"Dance, cowboy!  "
As a twice over single mum you quickly learn to not make a song and dance around indulgent purchases even when they 
 I enjoy watching you dance out of the office...I tried to dance out of my office...TRIED...LOL
 Dont go to concerts if you want to sit down. People go to dance and have a good time. Oh and Bill is a complete douche
Imagine dating one of those white girls who cant dance at all but always attempt to 
Awesome trick/dance moves getting ready for game day tmrw!! Taking on Immaculata at 12 on the turf!!  
  only if we can dance with you
 Yes!! No matter how much alcohol I consume I do not dance 
the way hendery looks super smollll but his visual and dance skills r no joke
 We should make a dance to Girl shake dat booty meat
" &lt;gasps&gt;This would be the moment on a podcast, where I'd be like, ""Matt, but Magik? Warlock?"" But deep "
"Ramler, individual qualifier from Minnesota, on floor. Double pike to open, lovely. Dance series is just beautiful, "
"Can you believe PCCs ONE WEEK AWAY?!  Soon all of our hard work and dedication will come to life, I hope yall ar "
"It's Fridaaaaaay!

FUCK TRUMP! 

Let's dance MFKRS!

"
"Shoutout to BOT, Astronomar and Dances with White Girls for delivering the dance floor vibes this week. 

Up next: "
 That dance tho
"Victoria college official graduation class 18

vc djmoutaz dj dance life style selfie fire class_18 @ Vict "
  Yep. I think in the dream sequence when Charles Dance is menacing Eddie Murphy. (Neither 
This shit make me wanna go to a old head party and dance with somebody semi young aunt.  
 Michelle pls come &amp; teach me dat dance I beg....
 Its hard to dance and type at the same time
Ok.  is inspiring me. Tell me your horrible first kiss stories. Mine was at Xavarian Brothers school danc 
Hello? Who lives in Indianapolis? I need three people who live to dm me like now. Requirement: army maybe? And can dance.  ARMY dancers
I wanna dance with somebody... At CVS... On a FridayNight 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : The Launch Relaunched
 - DJ Jean
 "
"and it's allright

if you dance with me tonight

we'll fight the dying of the light

and we'll catch the sun "
"50 bucks first dance; 100 second dance; 200 last dance; 400 for a private 30 min. dance. And 600 for a private hour dance. Sucks, huh?"
"am i the only one who wants to dance to the whole choreography of  's ""Formation"" when the song comes on?"
  But J....That final dance to Walking in Memphis in PMP 
  All she had to do was post her dance videos and not be racist/speak on something she shouldn't.
"Awesome day with my boys. We got to dance, play, and laugh, even had time for a few movies. As a mom I cant ask fo "
How drunk girls dance in college bars 
    Gonna need a bigger dance floor
"Gurrrlll, I just got the very *last* ticket to see  in Sacramento! Doing a little happy dance right no "
um? dance monster is thriving folks 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB My Love Is Over by Jean-Roch on  
Now playing She Drives Me Crazy by Fine Young Cannibals music best hits rock pop dance on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Five More Hours by Deorro &amp; Chris Brown on  
Fuck ya if you can't dance
These foolish sets of dudes are only thinking about SC. Make sb dance make dem cot
 That and when you ask for proof of ID to show they are in fact 18 or older to order (and oh wow the son 
"Dance like no one is watching.
Sing like no one is listening.
Post online like your 78 year old grandmother."
" watch him do the ninninger dance, that's also wholesome"
" fake you out (with summertime sadness)
hometown (with rabbit video)
oh, ms believer (making clikki "
" Same here... I think the dance kinda fun to see, just not the song its not that great! Ppl are hyping it for no reason"
" Ive been competing in dance for 13 years and Ive done tap, jazz, contemporary, ballet, pointe, and "
Ive never been to a concert and I wouldnt want to go to one bc it looks like all people do is record the concert 
Nooooo way have I just caught some guy smoking a massive spliff on the dance floor at work. Happy 4/20 my dudes starting early x
" name: hannah
age: 21
where i live: newps
what i always say: sick
my favorite color: purple 
what i alwa "
"Dance with the waves, move with the sea. Let the rhythm of the water set your soul free.
.
Fortnite SaveTheWorld "
  Great slow dance song...
"    Shit, they might as well hire Wade, to do the dance numb "
we can just dance for this 
You know what I'm going to start looking at merengue and salsa dance classes to attend to cause I need to know this
A brash Buzzfeed editor looks back on her life with song and dance. Shot in portrait mode.
World of Dance - Episode 9 was recently added to Plex. 
"Shaku on the beat when I dance with 
Dideh Vhul."
"Me. You. Let's dance.

John Legend 

Check out A Good Night [Explicit] by John Legend &amp; BloodPop on Amazon Music
"
Lil Coco was so beyond in dance years. Check the smoothness and precision of this young phenomenon in the 80s. 
" Dance: I hope we aren't going to die

Music: ......

Lyric: Well this was the worst thing that could happen"
 This dude dance like hes in a chappelle shows skit
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Hunting High And Low by a-ha on  
Tomorrow is going to be a beautiful day for a pool party. A mainly sunny sky. High 82F and even better day for The 
 M done learning. I can't come and kee myself . I'll just wait fr the next dance step ....
"Baby, don't you wanna, dance up on me
To another time and place
Oh baby don't you wanna, dance up on me
Leaving beh "
Im so crying listening to last dance
Going 2 stepping tonight.. just need a dance partner 
I havent went out to dance &amp; tonight Im stepping out like hell yeah Im so ready to dance all night if I can  
"once rksu gets good w dancing, im claiming fol2estz as his dance claim if someone hasn't yet  bc boy dances w a lo "
 RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouHave IfYouRemember when was the last time you di 
 I beg you I can not remember things I have a big cock on cam Now I beg you that you see me know me I 
"Happening Now!! The PMR Hy-Pro-Glo Dance Party/Rave. Grab the glow sticks and come party with me!! 
We're going "
"Shawn from 1million dance studio is 100% my man, the way he DANCES omg + he cute CUTE, that's the whole package right there"
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Alabama Blues by St Germain on  
". not only became the face of Miami sports, he became its heart and soul. OneLastDance 
 "
  Everywhere mad dog Murdoch controls the MSM and the govts actions hey Barry..hes a menace to d 
im at the school to help my friend with her school dance and im so awkward IDK THESE PEOPLE IDK HOW DO I HELPFBSBBF
 Dance music 
"jyp: dance and Ill give yubin a comeback 
me:  "
"Scientists: no!!! its impossible!!! youll kill us all!!!
Me: Fuck it. *does the gangnam style dance to Sexy and I Know It"
Im in the mood to dance some bachata and drink heavyyyy
"When you are challenged to a dance off in between takes at work..... @ Atlanta, Georgia "
Bout to get my dance on. 
"I need to be in a Nigerian music video like ASAP, I speak Yoruba and Ive been practicing my dance moves."
 A dance with a developing country to make sure there is a plunder scheme in place to re-route a cut to h 
he invented how to dance and be stable 
"Stream at around 8:30! Gonna dance the night away with the TabiChat! Come join me!
"
I cant believe my first ex once asked me to not play Beyonc when I had the aux. my most recent ex demanded we g 
Every girl should dance to Playboi carti - Poke it out
rock pop dance classic hits now: Look Away by Big Country on  
"Sometimes you just gota put the phone down, take a look around, unwind and jump on the dance floor"
" Hope Hicks loves cameras
Look at her dance down the stairs of an airplane in Vanity Fair"
Mickey Hull we can dance and howl at the Moon tonight lol 
THE ROYAL DANCE FAMILY ARE SO FUCKING GOOD I CANT-
wwwaaiit joon said halsey was like a tiny bird learning the dance thats so cute
 I beg you I can not remember things I have a big cock on cam Now I beg you If you see me know me I l 
     Run this thought experiment. Imagine that all the board member 
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Whistleblower 
 - Shermanology
 "
Kat is over and were both tired but do we go out and get margs and salsa dance or do we nap stay in and drink wine ? pls help
ive ALWAYS wanted to dance but my parents never let me worried bout what people would think after watching homeco 
"Whenever Im trying to seep is when baby is like, nah mom, its dance time"
Come and see babesy_G's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: Dance    
  can y'all please bring star power into the item shop 2day bcz that's one dance y'all haven't brought and I really want it
" And they are FAST! I take multiple photos in succession, standing in the same spot. These puppies dan "
" Pitchers should just start doing a strikeout dance, then everyone could be equally offended."
This bus driver is playing Just Dance. A man of taste
i homosexually power walk to the precise bpm of trivia: just dance
Grumpig: It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does a strange dance to control foes' minds.
Whats going on in the bay tanight?  Either dance happening?
AChorusLine news.  Chicago Illinois Trio of Superb Chicago Productions Highlight Language of Dance 
"Big Raunchy - I Wont Look
hiphop rap music dj love rapper beats trap artist producer rnb art instagood "
"GIGIS DANCE PARTY IS IN SESSION TOMORROW &amp; U R INVITED! 
Its been a long week and Im so excited to SL "
" They need goebels to teach them to tighten up the routine, the dance choreo in the ad was not up to s "
"  I play some dope 3 day tourneys, at nice private courses that are 350 a man, and include 4 "
I want to take contemporary dance lessons
Ok its started and I physically need to get up and dance sorry not sorry 
Starting a dance club reply with your video to join  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Laisse les parler (Club Mix) by Tay-O on  
The roomies are gone so I am having a dance party of one in my living room
"Remember when dutty whine came on and we could dance because we didnt wear wigs. 

tbt"
 Mickey is doing that damn ninja fort nite dance! 
magic dance is such a fat bop
True counter culture is listening to blood on the dance floor
  What style of dance is this?
Bring those dancing shoes tonight! DJ Timothy Cody and Shell Shock keeping the dance floor moving all night! Mel's 
we bought a new tv for the living room cus my dad broke the old one .. now i can torture my family with nct dance p 
"Oh
 made me dance saaann...I forgot to take pics  "
SkyHouse Music: R&amp;B with an alternative twist and DIY indie inspiration. Hip-Hop. Rock. R&amp;B. Reggae. Acoustic. Danc 
"Repost papiboyfridays

PAPI BOY FRIDAYS PACKS  EVERY FRIDAY NITE IN WEST HOLLYWOOD!!! 16+ gorgeous "
" Billy Talent and Linkin Park, i was like 14 yo, one of my three sisters started to listen to them "
"not only can he rap, sing, dance, produce, write, but he's also THE genius? jisung boys born in september 2000 bett "
       I think  that wa 
i would NEVER dance/groove like dat! lolol batti boi(check spelling) lolol
" To paraphrase Viper in Top Gun, Thatll about cover the post game dance parties."
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Gangsta's Paradise [Kylian Mash &amp; Tim Resler Remix] by Coolio on 
"WE CAN DANCE ALL NIGHT, GET ME BODIED"
 RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouHave IfYouRemember when was the last time you did th 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Robert De Niro's Waiting by Bananarama on  
no billie i havent done that dance since my wife died 
 Dance off when I get back
Wow I wish I could actually dance like fr 
I cant wait to kill the dance floor tonight
i truly believe that no two italians are distinguishable from each other. they all dance the same exact way when de 
"Changing Wanda to Rachel.
Slowburn Irene ends up using her days off to visit Rachel. Rachel will teach Nicholas how "
I just heard an audio from an edit and Ive made a dance routine out of it and the audio is stuck in my head due to 
why she going so hard over a silly ass line dance lmao 
b stage and particular taste was so much fun today !!!!! we made the security guard dance he was so happy tho hahah
  Its a war dance my dad used to play this in afmadow jubaland 
"Dance all the night till you can't feel your legs  

My art work on Canvas  "
this is what me &amp; jack think we look like when we break out into a synchronized dance but we probably look more lik 
  you tryna teach me how to dance
"The setlist  
Mi Medicina has a full dance routine yessss  "
It's the weekend--everybody dance! 
"* Free DL * | ""Billie Eilish - Bad Guy (Barry Harris House Mix)"" |mixed by  | Dance House Club "
 Prove it with your dance moves sir:)
       Just got back from watching th 
 Hope they start with interpretive dance
"Y'all,  is so nice and so wonderful at teaching and I'm so grateful I got the chance to go to her dance ma "
whomst would come to a cobra starship dance party lmfao
"Why yes that is me doing the ""Bye Bye Bye"" dance in Golden Corral."
"Brooklyn Terry  House Solo at Vilnius Street Battle 2016 /  
house dance solo demo dancer step"
Critics Pick: Review: Youll Never Dance Alone (a Solo) 
"Are you sur become i will make a party and i want people to dance  , yes! Congolese music is phenomenal? "
 Pls god Im literally asking for ONE just ONE single dance cover of ANY grime song pls god just one
someone take dance 5 with me over the summer pls
"Dance with the waves, move with the sea. Let the rhythm of the water set your soul free.
.
Fortnite SaveTheWorld "
I just wanna dance 
THE RAMPAGE from EXILE TRIBE / Knocking Knocking (Dance Video) 
 You try teaching mice to dance.
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Brand New Day by Sting on  
"Hey!! Illeana, I can't read this--even using a magnifier!! How about I stop by and take a closer look. It sounds li "
 I know some 17min dance remixes. Should give me some time to plan...
"When you dance to the beat
Of the music at night
With your girl on her feet
Swaying left and right

ROCK ROCK TO THE MUSIC
"
i use to praise dance &amp; i miss it ..
"When the music changes, so does the dance."
"Can you enjoy ""a good dance tune"" AND work in international diplomacy?
Yes you can.

Read a few hundred to thousand "
I hate doing this dance with you
"Long weeks need a weekend
Cheap drinks need a-slingin'
That dance floor needs some me on you"
"XSPIRITMENTAL MAROONS INDIGENOUS BLACK 
pachamama free(dom) dance party 27 our earth our time
(every third black fr "
 Her name was Isis and she did a bit of his dance
 Sha follow me. I'll teach you to how to dance Zanku
 Doctor didnt believe me and took me off when it didnt cure migraines and skin flared again. Put m 
  Make that baby goat sound and dance like youre crazy
  They literally dance so much together in that moment the naturalness just jumped out l 
"i dance,"
Apparently my sister's boyfriend once learned the dance moves to the pop it lock it song from the hannah montana mo 
yall remember his cover of one dance?? unbeatable 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Gangsta's Paradise [Kylian Mash &amp; Tim Resler Remix] by Coolio on 
Here's one for a product that you use to make pudding/jello. Gives you the DIY gif with some super catchy Chinese p 
 lifes a dance you learnnnnn as you gooooo
My Destiny's Dance to The Love Connection... 
IM NEVER GONNA DANCE AGAIN GUILTY RHYTHM IVE GOT NO FEET
"my knees: *are broken*

my dance teacher: YOU NEED TO GET OVER THIS KNEE THING 

me: "
"I hope  focuses on what got him to the dance. Hand for hand he smashes khabib, he beats Diaz, Hallo "
I will default dance for the tl
"Whoa smooth sister, feel everyone's earth. Just swing and dance ""Hey, hey hey!"""
"headcanon: during the dance recital brio scene last ep after rio says thanks, partner. beth walks away and turn "
 RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouHave IfYouRemember when was the last time you did th 
 Dude.  On Good Friday. 4.19.19. I screamed so loud and did a happy dance.  Lol.
We gotta see the bub dance for the wave to fully take effect  
 You cant dance son
 DONT VOTE FOR BILL CUZ HE CANT DANCE LIKE ME
"   please convince her to do this dance with at a party, its imperative for my happiness"
"if it doesnt challenge you, it wont change you

.
.
.
dancercompetition morethandancers "
Have you heard about Dance Stars Festival's new Team Match?? Participate in these fun categories to win great prize 
"[Album: beatmania IIDX 5th style Original Soundtracks (2001)] [Series: beatmania IIDX 5th style, Dance Dance Revolution Festival]"
 One dance
They ran to my phone how hoes run to the dance floor when they hear Cash Money Records taking over for the '99 and 2000 
Just finished listening to mellymah Unplugged episode and was throughly impressed to hear how she made her transiti 
"F R I D A Y M O O D 

viernes fridaymood dance instababy instavideo en Greater Buenos Aires "
 like im still not very good but at least i know how to dance on beat and do the correct moves 
 last dance jsjs
" I love his music 
his fandom MONBEBE  
 I love his style  and his rappers Joohoney IM 
 
vo "
"Theres a couple ways to wear this Sabika Bolder Collection. 

Check it out at  20% of your "
   The one that started the dance 
"Dance, when you're broken open. Dance, if you've torn the bandage off. Dance in the middle of the fighting. Dance i "
 Was that the kayle dance lol
"THIS FRIDAY AT MEZCAL LOUNGE
Cumbiatron! X La Junta
(The Worlds Best Dance Music)
Doors at 9pm | 21+
Limited $5 Ea "
 Rock On (Dance On)!
 Trump here looks like a dance gigilo.
 'Cause the best things happen when you dance into the weekend. Enjoy and Happy Easter Jonathan
I will fuck da party up w/ my dance moves
LMAO WHY ARE SO MANY VIDEOS OF PPL ON TIKTOK TRYING TO DANCE TO KPOP LIKE FHFHHF STOP
Friday afternoon car dance with  curiousaboutARMY tgif everydaylife 
I just need more dance in my life!
Here we go! Friday night is late night dance party with DJ Sindicate at Santa Barbara Trading Co. Come see Charley 
Weekend Party time!! My latest Mix on  DanceParty dancepop popmusic OldSchool oldskool 
"Every year on Good Friday, Germany forbids dancing out of respect for Jesus. It's called a TanzVerbot and the onl "
"HOWDY FOLKS , 
CHECK OUT THIS AWESOME SONG ABOUT A SPECIAL MAGICAL MOMENT !
HAVE A LISTEN , HOPE YOU ENJOY , AND HA "
"I dont caRe if you can dance
just fuck off"
 Ngaatibvire.. She can sing n dance but attitude 0%
Tomorrow!! Ready to share some moves again!! Lets dance! 4pm  @ Millennium Dance Complex 
 A little late to the dance  par for the course -ask anyone from MA-this guy is dressed up bu 
Few things are more adorable than your kid showing you their new dance moves 
How do you set up a queue? Im trying to do song requests for Just Dance. justdance twitch
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music 
"  Yep, he lied.  Hes a millionaire just like all of the rest.  Hes a vaudevillian and th "
"choreographer: so does anyone of you have any experience in dancing?
drag race contestant: oh, i have a dance backg "
"Big Raunchy
Get this beat  hiphop rap music dj love rapper beats trap artist producer rnb "
yall ever just awkwardly dance to joeys outtro music while ur scrolling to find a new video to watch because hi
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Ode To My Family by The Cranberries on  
"I could use a long hug, a slow dance and a deep conversation.
fridaynight"
"  Right? Eight million bucks to sing, dance and whatever else the do? I literally save childr "
  i watched the killing me dance practice and was bam hooked. It took me weeks to figu 
"After I tweeted this a man who aww me throw up 4 times outside Yankee stadium told me he owes me a dinner, a dance, and a date"
Lindsey and Jasons wedding rehearsal dinner and dance! Working with the one and only Angelita Eller DJ lighting 
if i were to hypothetically maybe do a dance cover which song should i hypothetically maybe do
GOT MY NEW CAR TODAY dance wit me now 
  You'll be fine. Unless you don't go outside and do a rain dance naked
"The CSUEB Theatre and Dance Department are looking for a Performing Arts Technician!
If you or anyone you know is i "
" RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouRemember when was the last time you did the dance the bump and with who,"
Dance the night away.... MeetMeAtIguanas 
"just saw some crackheads have a heated argument or a dance battle, im not quite sure"
Merce Cunningham Night of 100 Solos: How L.A. organizers pulled off a dance coup 
 Really. Are we doing this dance again.
 Stay alert! Bears are known to grab their prey and drag them into the darkness of the dance floor!
Barely Legal with Dance System - 19th April 2019 by Rinse FM 
"qanon hmmmmmm, who has the MOST TO GAIN breaking up this UN SECURITY COUNVIL? WHO VOTES THE MOST TO BLOCK US/UK? D "
" Awwn dear, you need a hug. 
You'd be fine, okay. 
Try to listen to some loud beat music and dance. "
Im gonna dance my pain away o got problems lol
"Why can't I turn around and walk away?
Go back in time?
I had to turn around and walk away
I couldn't stay, I had t "
" Dance: ....You can't be serious right know

Lyric: .....wait what.....

Music: ......"
"Its Prom night for many today and one of our very own, Cooper, decided to swing by for a pregame meal with his lov "
Went to Kmart this morn . Grabbed a whole heap of crap . Scanned em all and then I did I forgot my wallet dance  
" Not there tonight, but reminded of that time when I went out to the square for Game 5 in 2013. Hopi "
"I hope he buys you flowers
I hope he holds your hand,
give you all his hours when he has the chance, take you to ev "
"Hate girls that judge from accorss the bar, leave me to dance to Bowie thanks"
I love to giggle. You get to dance! laughter chuckle grin humorous 
happy full moon  hope u can all dance under it 
The music I have playing makes me want to go out to dance 
"Im curious, whats your guilty pleasure song? You know the one. When it comes on in mixed company, you act like yo "
dance line fav?  seventeen ou nct 
Monthly Dance Party: 
we dont talk enough about jin and namjoons dance improvements
 RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouHave IfYouRemember when was the last time you d 
Dance music Ive been away too long. Anyone remember ei8ht edmworld edm edmdance edmaddict edma edmbeats 
" I hope you have a most fantastic holiday weekend, and that you jam out to some ""good"" Genesis!! Except "" "
 Did you know ALL ALONG that he was a traitor??! The kid I saw in a dance recital using the whole stage mas 
Trivia : Just Dance ! !! 
 Westerners Artist can't fckin dance they are so untalented
   I need alcohol to get through seeing Colonel Sanders reenacting the dance from 
"Some womenand I am talking about so-called ""mature believers,"" not lost souls or baby Christianscome into Gods s "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Take Over Control
 - Afrojack Ft. Eva Simons
 "
Get your fiesta started right! Fiesta Reggaeton partytime dance DanceParty 
i honestly want the type of guy that will dance around with me in my room to some throwbacks
  Dance girl dance lol
Crank that Soulja boy will forever be the best rap/dance song fuck all that other bullshit
" Make I just laugh small, ur dance no be for here ooo.
"
Jealous of the emotional bond that Parvathi and Jon shareClara eventually decides to separate from Jon. Andrew E 
" Back  including husbando Noctis""

She smiled the him  softly.  Greatful he did dance with her she Chuckl "
Me trying every single new dance challenge 
 RandomQuestion MyFavoriteDance JustCurious IfYouHave IfYouRemember when was the last time you di 
Back2Love  dance video full link to the vid will be in the bio 
  Lemme see you line dance
"FINANCE: Netflix CEO jokes about injecting ""horse hormones"" into strangers through the interpretation of dance. Sai "
Listen to Gabriel &amp; Dresden  Jupiter by more Stellar ID's np on SoundCloud Dance  
 Host of Dance Fever.
i will do anything for hoseok to dance to exid again
I thought the table part of Dionysus looked familiar! turns out one of the dancers from the Lab helped choreo it an 
Y'all rlly thought I was joking about the dance thing sa? Guess what I am omw na sa venue HAHAHHAHAHA HASTAG DANCER HAHAHAHAHHA
Aux Dog Theatre proudly presents an Evening of Dance  
" oh alright
i'm okay with that
i can dance with koala on me"
Death by Disco will be moved to Kiva in the karaoke room. We will start at 8:30pm til 2am meaning more time for you 
 Taehyung is my day I got a new dance and Im gonna go to the dance class tomorrow
Sponsored by Devotion Dance Academy: Pics from Freshman Baseball v Salem Hills  
Time for Donald and his criminally exposed children to break out the vodka and dance! 
"Me gusta tanto ;M; 
BLACKPINK - 'Don't Know What To Do' DANCE PRACTICE VIDEO (MOVING VER.)  va "
" Lavender
Juniper
Jasmine
Daffodil
Awakenings
Pulling
Me
Reminders 
Of not
So long
Ago
A little
Girl
Ch "
       Love this
Yeah she can BEAT her face but can she BEAT ME in a dance battle?..... oh Ight
"One year after Avicii's passing, the void in dance music remains "
" freaking embarrassing but not nearly as embarrassing as Teresa May last month fucking stop it people, just "
 I'm sick of Susan Collins feigning disapproval of tRUmp &amp; his agenda. She does this pretend song &amp; da 
 Go to sleep Pocahontas Smoke a little weed Do a little dance
I wish i could sing or dance or draw and paint good like i love all of that stuff but i cant do none of it 
" I can understand that, Ive had those days and what I can tell you to do is pick your favorite song cran "
And dance backward in their heels... 
Logans school dance... my fav pic from the booth  
So the Amerks outshot the Marlies 15-6 and hit the post three times in the first period but its 0-0 after 20 minut 
I hate haters that dance.
 Boys that can dance. For the win.
"In your light I learn how to love. In your beauty, how to write poems. You dance inside my chest, where no one sees "
"That special, dorky dance you have with your bestie or partner when the theme song of your favorite show revs up...."
Watching Michael Jackson is making me remember Omatsola. The boy with the leg like thread. Omatsola and his pencil 
i cant wait to dance to daft punk for hours tonight
Wish I could dance:(
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: True To Your Heart by 98 Degrees Feat. Stevie Wonder on 
Had to tuck the chain in cus it dance too hard 
Best rock pop dance music Now Abracadabra by The Steve Miller Band on  
I'm going to see mf DANCE GAVIN DANCE TOMORROW IM JACKED!
  When you look up to see the 10 year old Gator fan in the house hitting every single dance mo 
"Umm Pew Pew completed draft of RIVER OF STONE, an experimental opera dance piece going up end of June in Tel Aviv "
   We have seen this dance way too many times not to be concerned
In other news I caved in and I looked up Blackpink on youtube to see what all the fuss was about and although I'm n 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Whatcha Say by Henry Blank on  
"To mimic Michael Jackson, wear your black shiny Jacket and ankle length pants, white socks and shoes, sing with a t "
In my head i sabi dance pass Michael Jackson
 Hey hey hey easy on the Humpty dance 
   They finish tied for first. Do your research. And Zion didnt have a busted shoe 
Trynna dance bachata
Just saw khaleesi on the phone while prince zuko did a sexy fan dance next to her. Cons are great
"But the thing is man, I felt like I knew her, you ever get that feeling? Yeah, I probably don't right... it felt li "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Like I Love You by R.I.O. on  
"Don't dare say my name again
This is the last time we dance"
      That's what happen when Night 
  hmmm ifinite loading screen on Dance Your Blox Of egg hunt
"Skies were flying up, like a merry-go-round
We even ate at a hot dog stand
Slam dance screw
Chop Suey
Suey ah ahhhhhh"
  Lol....they are clumsy on the dance floor?!
 if you dont dance with me later ill set your house on fire
I think Colin and I decided on a first dance song. Took us 17 months but we finally sort of agreed on one 
"These are very addictive to watch.
The Year's Great Performers Dancing in a Series of Short Films "
STARS shining bright at the Father/Daughter Dance. 
"""Dance Tonight""   TGIF Aaayyeeeee"
Man bring back Americas Best Dance Crew
 YAY Happy Flash Dance Beagle 
art student tae and dance teacher hoseok au but its actually a secret life im living 
If you dont dance around to You Belong With Me by  are you really even living your best life!!! 
    I remember watching you in Novice Dance and knowing you had 
"When I jokingly dance seductively toward hubby and he looks at me confused but amused and says, What is that youre going. typical"
SomeoneGreat on  is real AF. So many feels. Gather your best girlfriends and all the wine you can drink an 
Me &amp; my sister practicing how to dance &amp; she says  deja te quebr i heard my back pop in places I didnt know it could pop 
 Tommorrow is my love i know the whole dance to it! I scream let me know! And weirdly to am i wrong! So yes i still do!
Drake feat. Wizkid &amp; Kyla - One Dance
"Literally Mamamoo could never disappoint us, I mean including their amazing vocals; Hwasa would go fiercely sexy on "
like im so pissed. that was my LAST pep rally. we didnt see dance team or get to chant or anything that lost seni 
I wanna learn to dance like  
 Maybe hiring an outsider wont be such a good thing.  Im sure hell hire a NYC guy or two on his 
"Part of me wanna stay in the house today, and part of me wants to go out and dance...That shit always makes me happy"
  My go-to dance looks just like that 
Watching my mom swing dance is a really soul soothing sight  my grandma by the time she got around to her early 60 
"i like do dance, do u?"
" Also, PGCC will house the countys biggest state of the art Performing Arts Center this Summer, comple "
"Nuestra favorita del NoGeography de  ""Free Yourself"", DANCE!! 

RolaPorRolaRCMX 

:  "
lolol dance practice was f u n 
I been  listen to Democratic on cable news an not have any evidence on President Trump . but ask them straight for 
"Vocal skills, stage craft, dance moves and entire showmanship and creative repertoire."
 Or a rain dance! 
This generation dance too damn muchbitch sit down everything aint gotta be about WOAH 
"TakeAMovieToBrunch

Lunch Cassidy and the Sun Dance kid"
lrt the dance at the end looks soooooo good
Just auditioned to dance in Afro B (The man who created the song Joanna) show tmm and I got the part beyond blessed and grateful.
rock pop dance classic hits now: She Shot Me Down by John Lee Hooker on  
"Things I didnt know I needed to do in life:
 dance for 10 minutes with an umbrella"
attending Tropic Disco meets The Mauskovic Dance Band  COX18
seohyun during the youaholic dance break and jinsoul during the satellite dance break have the same vibes
"Also has the ""I have to take my cousin to this dance because they can't get a date"" scenario ever happened in real life?"
 dance ballet:)
"You need to experience and survive from a real storm, before you dance in the rain.

ThingsJesusWouldSay"
Big Ben is chiming and the DJ has arrived. Get ready to dance the night away WHS. Prom is less than 1 1/2 away!! 
 VICtory dance
DATZGRIMEY is ON: dance fridays - Now playing No Glassback by  ). Listen now on Stationhead. 
"if you want to follow my journey:
IG:  (dance account)
 (life account, lol)
YT: "
He is currently learning dance due to his love for performing.
":) excited, summer, shopping, happy dance, target, swimsuit, swimwear, bathing suit
 "
"There has been much deliberation about this tonight, but I am convinced that a boy band must meet 3 of these 5 cr "
Hear a trumpet you didnt hear the first time &amp; gotta run it back...doing dance moves.... running back transitions 
" gave me great advice as a kid. He said "" Do what you wanna do. Say what you wanna say. Live how you wanna "
"  Python dance was a necessity
Pipelines were bombed Nigeria was losing money for nthn
These g "
I HAVE TO LEARN THAT CHIKA DANCE RN 
 I love dance lipsyncs but I feel like this swas just a flip and bend not a dance
What a wonderful group of kids! BHS you rock! Thank you for your support for  with the Riley Dance M 
me on the dance floor 
Speciality : Dance
" Omg I'm a fan of dance practice videos and I've seen her a bunch of times, I remember her bc she alw "
"WET WILLIE - RED HOT CHICKEN - Some Funk for Friday, Live from Mobile, AL, some Red Hot Chicken, Time to Dance,  "
"""Can I have this dance?"" fudge why did you do that? "
bbcfour MUSIC: Dance To The Music
 He was way ahead of his time. People don't truly appreciate what he did for rap. His dance skills were 
 is hilarious and had the best bba sae dance you've ever seen 
" The Boys
Lonely
Last Dance"
" Dance: *eyes turn red*

Music: Dance you need to stay calm so you dont hurt yourself 

Lyric: Dance.....y "
thinking about a small flossing child with a faraway expression in the middle of the crowd in the train station ear 
 It seems like baseball is going the opposite direction as other teams. Used to be you could dance after 
" Okay finally here I am, the dance punk enjoyer "
"ZIGGY RAMO
 ZiggyRamo
Pretty Boy 
PrettyBoy
new pinacle track by Australian newmusic hiphop rap "
American Guild of Musical Artists puts male sex abusers before women union members. Disgusting. The ballet should f 
Me before i take my coffee and dance a bit at mornings  
"The Fame - Paparazzi
The Fame Monster - Dance in the Dark
Born this way - Highway unicorn
ARTPOP - Venus
Cheek to C "
 Lmao Im just tired of alcohol  I only like to dance even though Im not so great. 
"Stand up, smile and dance with the stars and if they don't want it, so dance on your own"
Epic father/daughter dance. Candids will always be some of our favorites!  
Should I audition for grease even tho I dont dance v well???! (But I can sing!)
"Let's go baby and dance now All I Do Is Win by DJ Khaled Feat. T-Pain, Ludacris, Snoop Dogg &amp; Rick Ross on "
 She absolutely does not get enough credit for how much she has improved her dance since her JO days
"Faith: and he can dance
She is definitely not talking about Tim

"
       My grand father 
sober dance is the best one! I LOVE YOU  
"Thanks a lot 

Im trying to take it slow &amp; you go &amp; release Juice

This is now on my shower rotation. You k "
Kicking off a EasterHoliday with a DaddyDaughter dance party! grunge  
That man can dance like nobody's bidness!  shutupanddance 
Mad how I struggle to walk up Wharton hill when Im sober but on a night out I cant sit down for more than 5 mins just wana dance all night
" How abt us?  I wonder what's like when we try to dance, sya "
"    Jhope is quickest learner,He is dance leader, he teach dance choreo, m "
"The 2:10-2:30 dance break always gets me, I just love the moves and how each of them do them their own way. Tan Fc "
" +to her touch toward crafting.

""Then let's end this dance with a lovely note...""

He reassured, ho "
 Break Dance do Yeonjun puts vem
did he watch  and  blackpink dance video? 
 Really?! Shes on my comp team at dance. Shes been at our studio her whole life
"Freshman, Kelsey Campbell! 

Her favorite color is blue, in her free time she likes to dance, &amp; her favorite class "
 While the dance kept on going. Charlemagne knew such an approach was too precious to ignore. The pa 
    I'm for the wall. That's why I initially donated to Brian' 
 Lowkey I've been doing little dance moves in my seat learning from just watching the snl performance 
"27 DAYS TIL THIS STARTS. 

I CANT WAIT TO DANCE. 

Tix:  "
"Come Splack  Some Suds  With the Strikers Dance Troupe And Mahogany Dance Theatre, THIS Saturday April 20 "
I think it was called the 'yokai exercise' or something? idk but I had the dance and the song that went with it MEMORIZED and it was epic!
I dance in my dreams every night
ok i really didnt see anything i liked in the artist alley and its raining outside so theres no courtyard dance 
   Great song and wait till the masters get ahold of this and remix it. Its gonna destroy t 
WONDERFUL Father/Daughter Dance! 
"2)See video of a puppy for a dog! Big decision to add to the
household! You need caregiver when youre at work, foo "
" Fortnight, no one who ninga was when he horribly failed at hosting new year's eve and couldn't get pe "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : One Kiss
 - Calvin Harris + Dua Lipa
 "
Death of a strawberry is dance Gavin dances least weird song and it still has a Pokmon reference in it
"   Seb Dance is number 2 on the list.
Ideal result would be Labour winning 2 seats in London."
"Here's our best tips for taking great  pictures! 

"
NowPlaying Scratch Massive - Last Dance 
Casting for The Little Mermaid is live! Who will you see dance? Some dancers know these characters well and others 
This TCEcardinals family welcomed me into their home for the Bedtime Story with Mrs. Hopper experience from PTO 
"No Diggity! Right Here, Right Now!  At  Settime: 02:00 - 03:00 Come And Dance "
 Amen.Sing and Dance in Praise of God
" 
It would be good if you react to this version you can see the WHOLE DANCE LIKE ALL "
  Im glad you realize I cant dance babe lmao 
Hugely problematic 
"   In Only Lovers Left Alive, Adam is suicidal and Eve has to convince hi "
"Note: I'll NEVER purchase a ticket to a ballet company that allows sex abusers on staff. ""City Ballet Ordered to Re "
"Tomorrow! Come dance with me at  2-3p, opening for redeyeempire and again during intermission! This "
 Immabeast is a very well-known dance collective here in the US. They have dancers of all ages. I have be 
"When Ciaras album Evolution came out, me and my sister got the whole DVD of her dance tutorial with the album  ne "
Damn I wanna dance and drink
Southport Riley Dance Marathon  FTK SHSrdm forthekids 
Having a dance party to get this baby out - compliments of my husband on trombone  40weeksprego
"If I watch Homecoming every day until the first day of pool season, my body should snatched by then from all this a "
" Poison - Alice Cooper
I Wanna Dance With Somebody - Whitney Houston
Sweet Child o' Mine - Guns N' R "
Now playing Come Together by The Beatles music best hits rock pop dance on  
watching the wakey wakey dance practice and jaehyun throws jungwoo's hat. i cannot breathe
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Wishing On A Star by Randy Crawford on  
" YENA
who wouldn't love this talented girl? I love how she is easy going and funny that is totally "
ANN MILLER One take of her dance routine in 'On the Town' 1949 was ruined. She had been dancing very close to the l 
" every week they have dance offs. bracketed, winner gets to choose the Sexy Move of the song"
ThankYou  &amp; Thx  4 reposting   
Man tellem quit playing with you Q  bro been killing em in dance battles since before he was potty trained  
The track Np is Lisityn - Dance Of The Fire Tech House 
The emotion on this woman's face watching them dance. Beychella
" their voices, the rappers
his dance, his rhythm, his charm X
I saw his strength 
MONSTA_X 
"
I remember a simpler time back in 8th and 9th grade when yokai watch still aired in canada and at the end of the ep 
SHUT UP AND DANCE WITH ME
Honestly just want to go somewhere and dance all night and if you know me at all you know that this is really new year new me
"I don't dance, don't ask, I don't need a boyfriend
So you can, go back, please enjoy your party
I'll be here"
So in love with these dangling floral chandeliers over this dance floor... a wonderful addition to this beach weddi 
did I really get up and dance to baby boy YES MA'AM I DID
"   My favorite passage: ""A guy approaches me to dance . . . and I will myself to "
I need to learn Tevez's dance lol
"   Oh good for you bud! It was only a matter of time. 

Come on JB let's go drown "
  itsslavik  BackBendRemix uncleellis868    songoftheday    
Bones EmilyDeschanel DavidBoreanaz Dance party Friday! 
    How often did troops go to places to hear music and dance? Isnt that 
"  Ladies and Gentlemen, we interrupt our program of Dance Music, to bring you a special bu "
"I give it a 65 because you can dance to it.
AmericanBotStand "
My sister and I just choreographed a dance to Old Town Road together &amp; Ive never felt closer to her.
"BTS On Their New Album, Reveals Who Has The Best Dance Moves &amp; More | TI...  via  L "
"So my sisters are big mad at me because I've never heard ""I Wanna Dance with Somebody"" by Whitney Houston. They are "
Nite all.....I HOPE YOU DANCE.
"Tonight I'm gonna dance for all that we've been through, but I don't wanna dance if I'm not dancing with you "
" Christians dont have special garments he can dance in..........however, there is a Easter Bunny????"
"""I have to take off my clothes, feel the cold air, splash water across my bare skin. And dance. I'll dance a Ghost "
Love how you twerk but can you fuck like you dance huh
When 550 clears up n my bbygirl winter turns on the jams so we can all have a mini dance party  
 KAM IM NOT A KPOP STAN LOOK AT HER DANCE ITS PRETTY
Theatre Undead is an acid trip nightmare avant garde farce. An operatic tale of love and tragedy and blood told thr 
omg i jus want to wear a pretty dress and dance with my gf but to do that... i need a gf 
"OPEN REGISTRATION! Starting April 22th, we will begin our 4 week series for all dance styles of all levels! Come to "
" Yes!  If we think we can win someone with something other than Gospel truth, then that is what we mus "
  Dance to the opening credits with covfefe in hand every morning! God bless Sir Patrick! 
ANYWAYS I SHOWED MY MOM THIS VIDEO OF WINWIN AND SHE SAYS HE DANCE BEAUTIFULLY.  
Dead Can Dance - The Host Of Seraphim (Remastered)  va 
Big Sean x Dance 
Me at every Random Play Dance 
 No time. They should dance to the music
"Britains highest selling 12 record of all time, 5 in US Bilboards hot dance club tracks in 1983, and 1 after t "
UKwon can dance while beatboxing
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Family Affair by Nate James on  
 Hi! So what's it gonna take to get you to come to Virginia for a show? I'll learn to tap dance  sin 
" Thank you, I never got to either walk down the aisle or dance with my father at my wedding. He had "
Queen of Dance !! Periodt  
"  Dance all you want, doesnt make Beyonce better than these artists by any stretch. And "
" I think heidibunches can handle me at a  show.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
rave dance techno housemusic "
" Terang-terang sekolah menengah kebangsaan, hahahaha. But to be honest, we went to 15 schools so far and all "
  Freaking adorable. I have never seen a cow dance for joy  
"Have a dance, I will 
Easily lose it anyway
(We're dancing, we're dancing, I'm dancing, we're dancing, your dancing now)"
Cant wait to dance in Willy B this fall!!! So blessed and excited to have been chosen as a Carolina Coquette  
"""Life is dance from one step to the next."""
just did excellent interpretative dance to freed from desire
"  But sir, the Sammy Lev t shirt toss dance is second to none"
 You should come up with a new dance for one of them post it to the skins board ( ~Yadon
B&amp;W Invincible dance-break  may be my fave!  Fresno (Thx.  on insta!) 
"No one:
 
Me: The ""Mame"" dance break slaps. "
        a 
LMS SADD dance is going strong!  Way to dance like champs! 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Just Around The Corner by Cock Robin on  
"New TOP 20 chart, theme is 90s dance music.  Please share, comment, follow and retweet. 90s dancemusic "
i just have dance tomorrow and then i can sleep for two days bOOM
fuck I was literally imagining myself standing in front of my bed and doing the dance move and i didn't even questi 
Jetzt bei 1LIVE: Walk The Moon - Shut Up And Dance
When we first met him Sho Ahktar entered the stage with a drug induced double gold gun dance &amp; then he tried to kil 
do you ever love christine so much you actually like the dance hair
Now Playing :  Wizkid - dance  DjKentalkyInTheMix 
i'm convinced bts doesn't have an actual dance line bc they're all so good at dancing that makes me mad
"The lad covering Taeyong, whew

[EAST2WEST] NCT 127 ( 127) - Simon Says Dance Cover "
" Youre so cute when you dance.

She squeezed his cheek as she chuckled, walking to the car."
"Your Friday night dance playlist is just a click away,..Check our new Latin dance channel ,,hot Reggaeton "
Literally every time I see  dance Im suddenly sobbing on my couch 
    EXACTLY! People who can't dance have better choreo but Normani 
" Dance: Its not like we are planning to do anything wrong

Lyric: ....Dance shut up

Music: ......."
heres my favorite weird NCT dance moves (and how i call them) 
 Will have to dance for hours like  to get rid of it!!
ThankYou  &amp; GeorgeConway and Thx  4 rec  
"  No, but the last time you left your cloths in the washer for so long that I wore my last o "
". 

130814 exo weekly idol 
EXO dance to girl groups 

"
I need an excuse to DANCE dance its been soooo long
"Firstplay: ""Champaign Dance Remix"" by Pay as U Go Cartel &amp; Sticky on BBC Radio 1Xtra (1Xtra)"
Spent some time tonight the Cultural Festival. Great job organizing French club! And to the Spanish club who perfor 
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music 
"FUEGO  is back TONIGHT Friday the 19th at  Playing all Latin vibes! Reggaeton, Cumbia, Dembow, a t "
 I cant wait to blast your music and dance and sing like nobody is watching and feel truly free!!
"FOR DA LOVE OF ART! I had a 

 shot it!
Outfit by  

TheAHEMConference AHEMCGHANA "
 ! Help! Everyone on your dance your blox off Group are reporting this issue too! When we click Lets 
"Dance Picture Week starts this coming Monday, April 22, during your normal class times or adjusted class/picture ti "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
i missed out when seungyeon revealed yeeun's phone number and now the long waited yuyeon's dance practice vlive i'm sad
Been quiet lately but I'm back with loads of new content! But first please go check out my mix for Bedroom2Dancfloo 
"FRIDAY NIGHT @ THE BOB!
We are partyin' Tonight as Jake's Leg hits the stage at 10pm! Come hit the dance floor "
"  It starts with bubble trance, then industrial pop, then youre studying  dance moves "
NowPlaying Royal Electro X Lichtschwert - Think About You on  HouseMusic Dance Electronic
" Hi there Junho!
Sure we will have! But still in discussing to choose the date. So we are all busy to prep "
she's not doing the dance right and she's off beat 
" This is my 7th Drag
Never once got it in a kit
I have 4 of them stashed away for a rainy day
2 in eve "
"do not forget that i love kim taehyung will all my heart &amp; soul ! he is such a talented man, his voice,  his dance, "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Bullit by Watermt on  
"Have a student entering grades 4-9 for next school year who is interested in art, music, dance or drama? Come join "
This coulda been us but yall cant dance    
  His bedroom was a 2 story duplex. The sleeping with boys is overdramatised. he had frien 
Its 0:33 Ive been out all day and Ive got to be up really early for dance yet Im up editing the twins and looking at Instagram 
"Yesterday on social media: watergate2019 
Yesterday on MSM: Ha, Scotty did a little dance at the rugby. Hes great."
Now playing: 'I Can't Dance' by 'Genesis'
This unique group (as in the dance props) is up and ready for viewing! This one was fun with all of those straight 
      Okay an now tab dance out of Tavares hahahaha?
scrawl-your-heart-out: Change my mind. Okay. Dance with me. Youll see. 
 I cant wait to dance to that bop youll be dropping sometime this year
scrawl-your-heart-out: Change my mind. Okay. Dance with me. Youll see. 
"The only way to make sense out of change is to plunge into it, move with it and join the dance. ~ AlanWatts "
 Hahaha like hes going to do that. McConnell would dance with Satan for old Donald if he asked.
" His arms went around V's waist, shrugging as a smirk pulled at his lips. ""What can I say? Maybe my ta "
"aikroa Shall we dance, my Empress? "
LOVE LOVE LOVE this routine from Alicia Boren. Serious dance clinic.  
"Words wont be enough to explain how talented these three men right here, I love their freestyle dance!! Let's stre "
EDM  Dance Pump 2019 : Spotify Playlist [Submit Music Here] 
     Congratulations!
 Yall should do this. Outfits and all....Ive seen your familys cute ass dance videos
" Barton had fallen in love with her immediately, blues landed on her fairness and a dance they shared at a random "
Never seen a Naija dance that's actually cool... Everything since Galala na just stress 
"Q steps through the door &amp; is faced with the image below: eliot bathed in blinding light, looking MIGHTY FINE, look "
 sitting in the theater looking at your stage.  This old woman can not wait to see you fill this room with music and dance.
   STV works out at least as proportional as d'Hont and gives voters muc 
I'd beat every single one of you in a dance off
Why is it so hard for people to hit this lmaoo its prolly the easiest dance that went viral  
 Go dance enough for me too
I look like a noodle trying to dance 
NowPlaying Laurie Berkner - Drive My Car (Dance Remix) musicforfamilies musicforkids children
How drunk bitches look when YG come on at the club. DO YOUR DANCE YG DO YOUR DANCE!  
 Why don't you just default dance on her?
  Fun fact: orange justice is actually a Native American dance
 Dang...wish I could dance like that!
"""And I Don't know why but with you I'd dance 
In a storm in my best dress fearless"""
I graduated to the next pole dance level  someone get me a pole. I'm tryna expand my kompa 
 Multi-task skills are elite! Sing and dance? Hold my beer.
 Is that some kind of dance move?
Gangsta by Kehlani | Pole Dance Doubles | The Pole Project | Cape Town  via 
when dudes try to stop your dance flow. come on bro back up
Tonight I'm rocking Dicey's Downtown FTL come Party! tonight party diceys weekend ladiesnight djdef live 
"    We gonna keep doing this dance where you name another energy source, re "
Chae Hyungwon. His dance skills. 
"I heard this song earlier and now I want to go dance tonight 

 "
"Come and see Miledi's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance  
 "
"""And if I can't hear the music, and the audience is gone, I'll dance here on my own."""
Reminder about try outs in 4 days!! We cant wait!!
Hands On With KUVO 3.0: Pioneer DJ's Social Network for Dance Music - DJ TechTools 
" I get that yall are sorry for the delays and what not, but this happens EVERY single time we have pr "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Turn Your Lights Down Low by Bob Marley &amp; Lauryn Hill on 
  I SAW THIS BEAUTIFUL HUMAN IN HIS DANCE COVER OF IDOL W MINGI AND THAT'S HOW I DISCOVER 
"Who knew there were so many straight male ballet dances?
"
" This is going to be my ""Father daughter dance"" song"
 Lose yourself to dance
Tbh Hyungwons dance skills 
 actually i am jojo siwa catch me on dance moms
 Danced to this ish at middle school madness Friday night dance social hosted by the YMCA
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY FAVOURITE PERSON IN THE WHOLE WORLD!  I love you lots and lots and if I was the 
" Look I practice to pop songs in the shower, I have no interest in dance remixes messing up my groove"
 Ok I literally had a DVD of ALL their live shows &amp; I would sing along &amp; dance to their concerts in my living room as a young tot
"Let's dance, boys!"
"Speak
To that stranger
Today
There's a song
In their heart too
Make music
The whole world
Can hear
Be the oneness
O "
The dancers in ASU marching band cant do NOTHING but breathe and dance. 
  She has to dance now to pay her legal feesWont you drop your lawsuit? 
 You can dance
  NWS heard I was headed to ChaChas dance floor. Ya hurd? twirlingdervish 
dance line snapped !!
 It's litterally me whrh I tried to dance kpop songs
"My body is weary and my mind is foggy, but my heart is soaring to be reunited with my first belly dance community this weekend."
Final daughter dance for north 5th grade girls 
Its wierd now that dance is done
 u gonna dance or not.
"So delighted to take part in March Dance, a brand new celebration of independent ContemporaryDance in Sydney -- sp "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Everybody's Free by Rozalla on  
"from 2018 DREAM CONCERT
miracle opening performance practice

this dance is so chill and fun 

JISUNG NCTDREAM "
   I would vote for Seb Dance in a heart beat. I'm in the wrong region :(
 Billy any chance you could possibly come and present Grahamston 2006s with their awards at their pl 
"Best rock pop dance music Now Babe, We're Gonna Love Tonight by Lime on  "
"Let's go baby and dance now Drop the Bomb (Radio Edit) by Van Noten And Van Zandt, MC Sherlock on "
"Damn Zeldas in the desert really shut down. The only place that was truly bumpin Yg and ass clapping music.

Yall "
im not talking about the disparate styles (like krumping vs baton vs contemporary). im talking about when 200 peo 
How might they unconsciously look at clever coloured Ladies? When they dance like them you sure might come on top b 
thoughts on Doa???  the song? bop! kristins dance? bop x2! 
80s - Remember The Eighties  via 
Why cant I dance like these people in the Killin Dem video 
" The Dance, Garth Brooks"
"he's so bossy
he makes me dance
tryna sit in the back and just cancel my plans"
 Which one?!  The Dance version?
Small Days Is Still On Me Mind by Aliyah Khan. GoodRead Lets Dance! 
 @ Love Dance Point 
"I just wanna dance with you, not like in the club, but somewhere with some Cody Johnson playing in the background"
"  Lol....how is that helping Ontarians?
 Nothing left for healthcare, 
the Doug Ford Dance "
"NEW VIDEO DROPPED
Y'all go check it out, the full video link is in my bio. 

Video link  "
U were like the only 16(?) y/o at that dance class kinda embarrassing  nope it wasnt embarrassing actually! have 
" beabadoobee - coffee
beabadoobee - dance with me"
I just had this amazing dance experience that I will forever be greatful for 
ok but whens the dionysus dance practice coming
FBF to this vintage clip of Alvin Ailey dancers moving to the backdrop of Duke Ellington and His Orchestra. Enjoy! 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Losing It
 - Fisher
 "
I havent went out to dance &amp; tonight Im stepping out like hell yeah Im so ready to dance all night if I can  
"MTC's College Bound in Performing Arts Junior Package provides vital training in voice, acting and dance for the ca "
Mystery Dance - Elvis Costello
a peak underrated horny song is polite dance song by the bird and the bee and i stand by that!!!!
"Tonight in the Blue Room is a  and  presentation featuring DJ Chromatic spinning house, "
"Tonight's a night we borrow.
Let's make it a memory, a night of our own
A thing to remember when we're all alone
So "
Ezel &amp; Carlos Mena - Divine Dance Prayer ( Original Mix )
Make Em Dance (produced by Mantra)Mista Crain ON HIS HOP RADIOServant KingD-ROAD
Let's go to the Copacabana and dance till the morning ! BigData
LET'S DANCE: East Texans are working to make sure Alto juniors and seniors have a prom to remember. ALTOgether 
LET'S DANCE: East Texans are working to make sure Alto juniors and seniors have a prom to remember. ALTOgether 
I'm not crying... you're crying.  
"Cue Zenyatta clearing his voice and attempting to sing.
But his tone never really changes so it sounds like he's ju "
" The Specialists | Episode 1 

 Fun 
 Athleticism  
 Dance Moves
 OBGame Prepping 

SpringBall "
"I love to dance, only in Bali though  "
DanceWorlds2019 Division Preview: Kick!  
Our House (Special Remix - Extended Dance Version)Madness
"POINT GAMECOCKS  

FLAT | Lizzie van der Walde wins 232-231 over Caroline Dance on Vinnie. 

Gamecocks 1, Texas A "
 I freaking stan taehyuns confidence level like u muggles i can dance sing and im smart what u do bye energy
"The queen  bringing us FX realness, rocking her puffs as usual. DLO is amazing as always. Great control o "
" (o^^)o ~day 108

Seokjinne did a great job in a mubank today you dance and sing beautifully i like the e "
"i don't know WHAT i would have done if ""Like a G6"" came on at the 9th grade homecoming dance"
i need a dance practice video of desire so bad  
Childish Gambino breaks out his best dance moves to serenade Rihanna on the beach in Cuba! 
"Firewood is finally out guy
Download and enjoy below


abuja music dancehall dance "
"firstalertwx GatorNation GARTHinGAINESVILLE ""The Thunder Rolls"" won't be a problem Sat. evening!... might even w "
I just referred to a lap dance as a laptop... ACADEMIA WILL FINISH ME
"Can We Dance was the first  single from Meet The Vamps album, released on September 29, 2013. 

This s "
Pagi pagi dah dance to boy with luv  Good morning 
"W O O J I N ' S  F R I E N D S :
Daehwi - bestfriend ; barista
Jaehwan - composer
Daniel - dance choreographer
Seon "
What was that even?!!  &amp;  taking those bitches to dance school! Im DED. DragRace LipSyncForYourLife Asassins
DANCE OF THE WIND GOD!
Just did the worm 3 times in Airedale and once was in a dance competition with some middle aged women and to cut a long story short I won
 When I read this in my notifications I thought cop meant police officer and he was about yo do a dance move hahahaha
Reading the synopsis of a dance with dragons like 
Good Friday feeling... shingai jazzcafe live freedom dance 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Always Late (With Your Kisses) by Lefty Frizzell on 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Play Wit It by Angie Stone on  
"Flat | USCs Van Der Walde scores a 232 aboard Vinnie, defeating Caroline Dance 231-232. Point USC."
" Twist, Turn, and Scream could be: 1. A fun new dance move, 2. How to deal with a pile of grading youv "
 i second this dance and the statement
" girl, especially check on it. I remember watching the livestream at 3am and sis said I wanna see if ya "
sometimes you have to dance your way free
 visions of the presidency still dance in his pointy head. 
"I might not be the most Colombian person out there but I can damn sure salsa better than this 
Some of yalls dads "
Gonna Sturridge dance in Burger King tomorrow
He is covering Shownu's Iconic dance at Award show(idr which award show but that ICONIC DANCE MOVES) 
flashbackfriday to last summer! We are slowly approaching summer and we couldnt be more excited! Summer Session w 
 Just dance... Xd
Now thats a great way to start the Easter weekend off. Partridge Greeners are always up for a boogie. Thank you to 
 NO PANTS DANCE PARTY
Don't let 'em say the lion's head makes the dance! I'm counting on you!
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Latino
 - Chuckie x Steve Andreas
 "
So happy for pears!!! Lol fruit dance funny lovethisboy friyay family lol EasterWeekend laugh 
No one makes a better AMMP2019 emcee than  Complete with 90s dance tunes!  
"Let's dance like we're making love, Making love"
"Come y'all vote for my Mini Boss Lady 2's dance school ""Supreme Perfection"" 
Mikaylin I voted again  "
 I bet they struggle to find kid-friendly exotic dance clubs and recreational injection dens.
  We may have to all learn this as a group and do a choreographed dance on Friday
dance the night away 
I just finalized the choreography for my dance audition. This tweet right here is a promise to myself that I will t 
"Man takes break from spinning his sign, spins himself into a dance medley "
"Cubans came to America.  In Miami or Havana, you can find places to dance the Cha-Cha-Cha or the Salsa, and eat ropa vieja."
Woman Swaps Engagement Photos for Pictures of Father-Daughter Dance With DyingDad  
 Hillsong dance!
"   I just wanna dance all night, and lm all messed up.Im so out of line"
attending H+ | Soul Science Community Class 2019 at H+  The Hip-Hop Dance Conservatory 
 King  of dance hall
aara giving viren a lap dance send tweet
Bears are forced to dance in front of tourists at North Korean circus 
 liked this tweet because she knows this is true while Im getting ready to go out I take dance breaks to 
  Thick all up..  idk bout the dance tho
 not sure if you saw the episode on World of Dance where a girl group call Radiance danced to your son 
"advance screening of End Game on the 25th. 

*fan girl dance* "
"GIRL LET ME MAKE LOVE TO YA, ON THE DANCE FLOOOOR"
" I cant dance, so I dont try. You do you stud. "
The show that iKON dance to remix songs that includes Michael Jackson - Billie Jean .. they killed it!  
The European leg is over. Time flew. So many things happened since the first show in Amsterdam. So many people you 
"I continue to say thanks,
Take note, if you are visitor in in go-to Kubata Berlin and you wants to improve your Kiz "
"       No, I love my Grandfather, a "
"I looked at a salad Id made myself , I shut my eyes &amp; sparked out for 2hrs!...Now defo our to dance or I shall be awake til twongsday"
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Refined Intricacy by Origin on  
"""She danced. She sang. She didnt play piano, she pounded it. She was always dancing w/strangers. She would go up to "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: My Life by Billy Joel on  
Cool kids (don't) dance
"Update: a song comes on and all the kids scream ""ohhh!!! YES!!"" and run to the dance floor. It's Let it Go from Frozen"
Can't Call rainbows anamanaguchiiiiiiiiiinsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshoots a p l p please just dance like played
 I know she is acting on a carefully thought out plan based on decades of experience making this sys 
i was boping to Buy U a Drank and my mom just walked in on me... and I continue to dance ahaha she walked away and closed the door
Sometimes I have flashbacks when I had to teach the promiscuous just dance choreography to our cheer class and  I forgot how to count
 I've been a big believer in isaac for a minute. His brother Joel Isaac was my college's marching band dan 
  Maybe she can do a Native American war dance as she screams from her TeePee  that people 
aye who wanna dance
" Who cares? Those people just didnt know what fun was, and this was it.

She moved her hips as she the "
"'Cause I remember how much you loved to dance!
"
" 
 
 
  

Thankyou for a wonderful show and especially meeting "
. alumna  uses her degree to dance on the big screen  by  
"Ugh. After my first week on Bumble, I'm very ready to dance and see my friends at Clifton's."
Now playing Hip Hop Rap &amp; RnB 90s Old School Mix | Best of 90s &amp; early 2000s Throwback Dance (Mix)  by !
"First well wait, then well whistle, then well dance together "
I dare you to watch Beyoncs new Netflix film and not dance along with her TripleDogDare
maybe i should learn to dance so i can stop being so f*t and also i can dance like hoseok
Everybody dance together!
Sonando en KQ DANCE MIX 94    SATURDAY NIGHT - unknown artist  La Invecible  
  Hey Abe... ask him to dance for you  You can laugh about it with  
 The real question is are we invited to the dance
 Him and my grandma used to dance to it every time
"DK  CROWN Dance Cover Video
: Pure Water by  &amp; 

We going 270k views in twitter and 425k views on "
When you find out Casey Frey graduated from Juilliard for dance 
"If youre ever feeling down, go to spoons an watch the people dance, will cheer you right up "
"bdz, yes or yes e dance the night away "
"TONIGHT: From bedroom remixer to future bass DJ, we've always been fans of  for his solid indie-dance anth "
"Hot tea no one calls taejin sub vocalist even though bighit never said that about them except jikook stans .
Every "
 hi and dance
"Photo   April 20th
 bowvalleymusic livemusic 420 canmore artandmusic songwriter musicians "
"It ain't safe, it ain't safe----- 

""No Limit"" by G-Eazy, A$AP Rocky, Cardi B 
...had to go off on this---- 
Danc "
" I will say this tho, growing pains &lt;&lt;&lt;"
Aint God good! Im about to celebrate something good &amp; I need me a nice drunk &amp; a cupcake so I can dance in the ap 
I need a do over too! I never went. Infact I never went to any dance. 
"Just over 1 week till we dance ForTheKids! 

FTK FourDiamonds MiniTHON"
I really just want to get drunk n dance tho
Getting my audio together for Just Dance soon as I do it's partay time.
ive been on such a dance gavin dance kick lately and im not mad about it
Mother son dance 2019 
Lexy Ramler's form is EVERYTHING! Covered up a wobble on beam with dance. Sticks her dismount. So lovely to watch. NCAAGym
I reallt wanna dance holy shit
Its that time again! Come party with me tonight and tomorrow night at playlouisville in the dance bar. We have the 
"Flash mob at Antwerp Central Station!
Dozens dance to the music of the hit musical GREASE!
And they did a great job!
"
    You refuse to address the coffee issue. A person who does 
I am TOO excited for my bdsm themed outfit for electric forest. Im gonna dance to some FILTHY ass house sets in it 
"Club kids showed off their dance, vocal, and performance skills at our Spring Talent Show this week!"
" Abigail darling,lets not talk about the dance yet. Uhm can we pls talk about the timberland you wearing?"
 like monse told ceaser.....it wasnt just a dance.
" Hahaha honestly like I used to be one of them years ago where I was like ""ya can't be a metalhead if "
how danica bianca and I look like when we dance dalla dalla 
Welcome to the Family Big Fella!!!! Yall ready for my dance???  
"Enter: the queen   Great front double twist, some  dance, some reverse  work action, and a beautiful "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Let It Whip by Dazz Band on  
" ""But that is so sad. Why judge when they can be free to do whatever they want to? Run, dance, create.."" She sighs sadly."
 The Pineapple Dance
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Tribal Base Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
"How do I learn to weeb dance??

 Asking for a friend"
the fact that we never got a dance practice or solo video of yixing doing the lets shut up and dance choreo
memo came on wheres mic we need to slow dance
 Im shocked !!!! LatePuberty
Chris Brown cant sing and dance at the same time and Beyonce can. Next. The only this Fist does at the same time i 
"ep. 127 vengeful strike! the bracken dance!

kimimaro's story always makes me cry he deserved better. once again ev "
White girls have big asses for no reason.. they cant fucking dance for shit
 cover dance lah
Dance with Misery
No holds barred. No pulled punches. Whos eating whos lunches? I cant wait to see Barz &amp;  square d 
dance the night away 
Such a fun routine from  of  on the floor! Incredible dance and she scores a 9.900! NCAAGym
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Street Scene (4 Shazz) by St Germain on  
Ok shuttles lap dance should be optional! @ Fisher Building 
   We already are. When is your dance segment?
Here's a little known fact that absolutely no one asked for: I used to tap dance and it was the only time I ever re 
"The 27th a pouchie dance, unu cya invite me no weh that day"
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Sexy Latina by Davidson on  
Watching old dance videos makes me so h a p p y I can't wait for summer school gtfo plsthx
" For 3.95, his dance card is always full."
If youre at Coachella: Ill be at the Yuma tent the rest of the day dancing to house music. Come dance with meeeee
 my fav dance partner forever 
Mother son dance 2019 
 my biochem professor was playing a bigbang dance practice video when i walked into the classroom a 
He loves to dance so we spend half our time going over information and the other half I watch him perform 
Our 4yo before she does a dance for us that she made up: Make sure you get your wine before the show starts! 
"QC days during ""Dance dance dance"" Ajifa dey vibrate pass like this! "
Dance the night away 
"Yall dont even know how to dance to riddim, all you lames do is headbang. Do something else for once"
sing and dance*
  Sorry I didnt know that your worldly knowledge was that other countries were to dance a 
 I love the way you dance in magic mike
Who needs a circus for entertainment? Just watch white people dance -Diana 
  You better try and come Sunday baby!!! I want to dance and twerk with my bomb ass Vietnamese baby 
"'Write, paint, sculpt or dance. Be intuitively Centred in whatever creative skills you have, and that healing and t "
"(granted, I'm not dancing while I sing, but the reason I can't do that anymore is cuz I can't dance, not cuz I can' "
sometimes i go to jadens house and we have a dance party then i leave and i cant explain how great it is 
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music  
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music  EDM music NowPlaying EDMFamily DJ musicislife
 I showed my mom this tweet and she was truly impressed
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Hit And Run Lover by Carol Jiani on  
My friends lets go dance.... my answer : I'm not that drunk.. I still know what I do !!!!
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Don't Push It Don't Force It by Leon Haywood on  
 because yall claiming a dance that people have been doing forever &amp; getting mad when somebody else d 
"It ain't safe, it ain't safe-----

""No Limit"" by G-Eazy, A$AP Rocky, Cardi B

...had to go off on this----

Dance "
"Aksksk, Gonna reveal a plan. In about a month or two, Ill be making a YouTube production (dance MV) as one of the "
Happy Easter! 
Someone convince  to do a cover or dance to Poison by Bell Biv Devoe. I need this for like science reasons
 Would you consider doing a dance film with  ? 
 Yeah..... I didnt know he said it on the dance practice
"i wanna see u dance with me, if not shake ur chanel bag please i love her "
I have a friend who can tap dance backwards. His name is Pat
"Are we having a dance party in the car to OG Aly&amp; AJ? Yes. Yes, we are."
"Interestingly, RISE, one of their songs, has bass drop parts that sound EXACTLY like the ones from Papi Dance, one "
" Let's go my child, dance with me "
GANG GANG just found out I grew one inch!!!!!!!! 55
U AND ME TOGETHER WE CAN MAKE IT BETTER GOTTA TURN THE WORLD INTO UR DANCE FLOOR DDDETERIMINATE
I don't mean this sexually I just like to dance
Night dance... 
"1. hold me tight
2. three times a day
3. dance the night away
4. yes or yes
5. chillax "
Lon and this PERIODT Okurrrrt shit 
"Lets note nothing hits harder (except her Getting to the Money dance breakdown) 

BeyonceHomecoming "
 Me bro I want the dance so bad and the skin like waking up to that would lowkey make like happy asf like hella!
Happy Friday - I'm dragging my ass to dance class. What gets YOU motivated? 
 ALL OF BLACKPINK VIDEOS  (WITHOUT DANCE PRACTICES)
Me when  and  have plans and cant come out with me and  
" Well-said, Brother! If we think we can win someone with something other than Gospel truth, then "
" Too hard to slow dance with when you're only 5'2""."
my goal for the summer is to learn how to dance so please come to my dance recital august 16th
"

      Taemin ( from SHINee )
      
       Date of Birth July 18, 1993
       Hobby,SpecialitySoccer, Basketba "
"Poison Clan - Dance All Night

"
"Huge thank you to all my friends, old and new, who came in the rain to SchoolStrike4Climate, chant and dance for "
Costumes are coming together as we prepare for debuting our new dance material. Check out our new Jalisco Bows from 
"looking back on my life, who exactly thought it was ok to use robin thickes rollacoasta for a dance class for bunch of 17 year olds"
" In liveme,ain't nothing like a weekend with no obligations Dasha_Repina:Chat Music Dance  "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Tokyo By Night &amp;40;Axwell Remix&amp;41;
 - Hook N Sling Ft. Karin Park
 "
Little cha cha at father daughter dance 
How do you make time for reading? I had a review post all planned for today that required me to simply read twenty 
"The choreography is not easy,but the way the dance  "
GENERATIONS GENERATIONS from EXILE TRIBE / Sing it Loud solo dance ver. 
gotta say one of the highest motivations to do anything *at all* is whether I already paid for it. dance class? I c 
Let your girl lip sync Baby Boy by Beyonc while doing that lil hip move dance and I bet it be on and poppin
"  When you have an Ivy league degree in economics, and you live in NY..ummm, yeah...this aint Cocktai "
"""You idiot! Do you think I'd dance with a big, male partner like you?!"" - Ciel to Sebastian"
MEN WITHOUT HATS - The safety dance (Long 12'' Version Video Clip)  via 
"Impeach or Dance?

Within this echo chamber 
Hatred speaks plenty 
Skin color differentiated. 

People are strange "
and the blindfolded dance challenge sfjdjhshs they really let Ksoo clown himself and do it on his own   I love th 
"Karr hitting beam, bobble on a dance element but stays on. Lowery on FX for OSU going, but I'm watching Trin now"
Hey  the big boys are out ruining someones livelihood again with false copyright claims and 
Is it physically possible to listen to  new album and not dance? I tried listening at work and could not help myself.
"These entrepreneurs designed, named, and created merchandise to sell on their own time. They will be selling their "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Take U There by Jack  Feat. Kiesza on  
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np HyperGoGo - High Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. Manchester   
"     Haha, tell that to your fav who wont stop maki "
"Yipee sat.not enough hours in  day to dance and cook to hearts delight,to read and sing  to gaze n dream,to sew and "
WE CAN DANCE UNTIL WE DIE YOU AND I WE LL BE YOUNG FOR E VER
APD AUDITIONS HAPPENING NOW!!!! Whos going to be cast for next year??? 
 Especially the dance 
Let me go watch Homecoming and dance all night.  you done did it again!!
"  Personally, I'm very big on contemporary jazz and funk. If you like that kind of stuff check o "
 Everybody dance now!
Like damn lemme tap dance for my money in peace my nigga ...
 me and hobi both have high af cheek bones and I'm always dancing to everything like literally will g 
"Tomorrow 
Tomorrow 
Tomorrow 
Come to the Lees Studio of Dance DROP IN Dance Classes! Everyone welcome. "
My sister just FaceTimed me so i could be apart of the family car ride/ dance battle/ sing along like old times 
 when they both dance w their moms
"the saying goes dance like nobody's watching, i say write like nobody's reading."
 Bortus rocks the dance floor!!!
"""What are you looking at ? Are you objectifying my body ?"" That dance tho "
y'all i'm having the hardest time right now - I CANNOT get the Hamster Dance out of my head
"she'll dance in the dark. a real work of art, her eyes could burn down the room"
i swear if i ever try to dance to dionysus my neck will fall off
  Whitney couldnt dance 
whoever marries me better allow me and  to do the dance medley or else its not gonna work out
Ladies and Gentlemen its Friday and here at Wild West the doors have opened. Tonight is 21 and up only. No cover b 
Literally me and  tryna get the dance Your Blocks off egg ;-; and Its pretty hard
 If youre looking for a better vocalist say that but if you dont actually listen to Chris brown besides 
Starting with some light side sorc leveling on SF - then some raiding with The Last Centurions - wrap up with some 
" Blackpink don't dance like that, bubu. "
I had the privilege of attending a deeply intimate and powerful performance of Vellum this evening at the 
"Tomorrow 
Tomorrow 
Tomorrow 
Come to the Lees Studio of Dance DROP IN Dance Classes! Everyone welcome. "
"""You can be creative if you love life enough to enhance its beauty, bring more music, poetry, dance to it"" - Osho "
"Ready jammin' cuz, inhale chance's moon. Time to yell and dance ""Oh, hey now!"""
Princess Spreading Bull begins a War Dance.. 
"It's a party at  next Tuesday, April 23rd with   and DJ Annri Araseki.  It al "
"Nothing makes Olivia happier than hearing me say Alexa, play baby shark Our nightly dance parties are my fav part of the day. "
Want to meet one of our talented Gala performers?? We have tickets for our Meet &amp; Greet available on our website 
I teach dance lessons too   
Alison Wonderland Opens Up About Women In Dance/Electronic Music  
  Seriously this needs to be a thing. The Official  Dance Off!
"2019 Christian Dance ""Praise for New Life in the Kingdom"" God's People Worship and Praise God | Music Dance "
[KPOP IN PUBLIC CHALLENGE] ATEEZ - 'Pirate King' Dance cover by The Aim ...  via 
"Lose yourself to dance
Lose yourself to dance
Lose yourself to dance
Lose yourself to dance"
"THE ROYAL FAMILY - HHI NZ MEGACREW 1ST PLACE 2019  via 
Bloody hell NZ does everything better Dance"
the amount of public kpop dance covers ive watched is really um worrying
 Kuzgun was so jealous seeing her dance with that man! Lol. kuzgun
Dance of the oral anticoagulant
If I could dance like that damn Beyonc bitchhhhhhh yall couldnt tell me shit 
 I am sure most people are aware Mads Mikkelsen is a classically trained dance artist right? 
 ALL! WE WANT! IS A LITTLE PLACE WHERE WE CAN DANCE!
 Tht s3xy dance move isn't necesary here  ...who had him to do tht? 
" I hate clubs tbf, anywhere where people gather to dance in general. I don't get dancing. Music yes, dancing no."
"MyMomIsTheTypeTo dance faster than me and telling me to ""keep up"" while dancing merengue."
This will be my brothers and their wives cause my ass cant dance. 
"Need Beats? Lets Work!
Download Beats Instantly! 
Visit &gt; 
spotify explore unsignedartist "
 Time To Dance
"     Here's your""kids""."
 I need you to hit our buss down dance and our shoulder rock when you walk the stage.. thank you 
freestyledancing poplocking hiphopdancer song from by 6lack ft jcole northamerican usa canada europe 
If you cant do the 8 seconds dance with me at our wedding ion want it
"So they dance in front of the  
PocketCamp AnimalCrossing "
"nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB It's Alright, It's OK (Dave Aude Radio Edit) by Ashley Tisdale on "
" Chaos is a lovely dancer, and I like the dance when I can keep up with the steps. Sometimes, I get tripp "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Shame by Evelyn Champagne King on  
"Canada: Program gives First Nations students opportunity to learn how to dance, life skills "
"Come and see emmanuellah's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Great Morning   
 "
 Na from clap dance dey start
  Can only assume he has been rehearsing for a dance contest which he will be VERY prepared for.
 i can do that dance on command
 SMFH... bitch had me in da crib bein kelly or Michelle  and not to mention I had to be one of Ciara back 
   Dont let me do the dance moves 
"i made sideline cheer, comp dance &amp; comp cheer "
WHIPPED CREAM COOKIE FORTNITE DEFAULT DANCE
 I'm here til Sunday. Hear sumn bout a dance.
SKRILLEX - Kill EVERYBODY  dubstep
we want a dance mv of xingie..the footage is there 
"Dance the night away
Lets dance the night away
Dance the night away
Lets dance the night away "
"Check out my broadcast from my PlayStation 4! PS4live (KINGDOM HEARTS ) we sing, we dance, we cry, we fuck live at "
I tripped down the stairs last night and now Im at the hospital because I think I broke my foot. Thats what I get 
 will you dance with me 
" the sandals doing the beat WITH your dance moves, legendary"
they did the same thing with the relay dance back in november after Tempo's first win... they said fuck sm we'll do 
Someone come dance with me at Georgjez for 419 day
"Only 1 Week Away! Photo booth, Inflatable Obstacle Course, Rock Wall, Gyrosphere, Mechanical Bull, Art Show, Bands, "
i have a big feeling fhat solange knew this dance already this was her MOMENT 
The fact that theres an 80s dance party at BSP tomorrow doesnt help like come On am I supposed to just not go and 
Hoseok always does a lil victory dance when he cant contain his excitement and I think thats the most precious 
" Estas han sido las asignaciones:
Ease: Jinkook
for him: Namgi
Talk me down: Taechongu
Wild: Jikook
Youth "
"Im on the gnaaaac ,I wanna dance comegeeetyourmaaan"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Are You Ready by PACIFIF GAS &amp; ELECTRIC on 
"Come to LA, well dance and vlog it all  Happy Fridayyy  "
I wish I could dance to this with the jazz class from my junior year 
Shoutout to the lass who came up to me after tonight's show and complimented my snake hips and dance moves. One of 
If you know me you know I love anything that has to do with dance but I can't go to professional dance performances 
 lol what damn dance man 
" Porter was Darkseid. Its up to Ava if she wants to use him or get someone else, which I think she mi "
"  Ease: Jinkook
for him: Namgi
Talk me down: Taechongu
Wild: Jikook
Youth: Namkook
Too goo "
"So you can have tea with Donald while horseback riding, you must do a dance and run 1 km.."
My office tonight !   in north Bergen . Droppin all your favorite music . dj djlife dance 
and then dance and drink and screw because theres nothing else to doooooo 
Lots of dudes with pony tails at this contact dance jam
"Today is a big day
I'm officially 24, and starting the first full year of my life as Miss Julie H...
Yay!
*Small victory dance*"
IM IN MY CAR BUCKING BITCH IM DOING MY DANCE
"  Well, you could go swimming if you wanted to dance in zero G, but then you wouldnt be one "
they made whole ass LAWS to oppress poc for years and dehumanized then and ur bitching bc ppl say white ppl cant da 
i remember having an argument with an old friend of mine about how reverse racism/racism against white ppl isnt rea 
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  reggaemusic dancehall reggae JSO dancehalllink
Ill be at g-pub in Howard tomorrow night painting/vending to some awesome talent Ill have a bunch of exclusive an 
"taekook can rap, sing, dance (in sync), have the best chemi, soul twins, know how to pour their souls when they sin "
 finally after 7 years welcome back to the big dance and let's go Magic fight hard and let's put in wo 
Whitney Houston - I Wanna Dance With Somebody  via  WHATS UP SOMBODY...
"You better dance for your life, sweetie. 

You go, boy.  "
I cant really dance I be jiggin
I would like to go to one of them EDM shows in Miami and dance for 8 hours straight one time in my life
Until your mentally ready you will never be physically prepared. One more week till my first big dance ironmantri 
This is how they come up with the water works in their concert. They found out that they have the skill to dance in 
hey guys im currently debating if i should dance or sleep
" BS. You love the limelight,  it doesn't matter who or what baloney spews from your oddly big mouth. You're sim "
Dancing in the djl dance stage testing out new settings! 
 Born to dance 
"yes but don't do me dirty like that, i just wanna dance and lipsync in peace is that so much to ask for not everyo "
" Dance: Oh cool....

Lyric: ..... -

Music: Oh ok"
 Eating wings. Maybe dance
Ready to dance with the devil  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Cantiga by Milton Nascimento on  
Foot in mouth dance 
    But Corbyn has already put a Brexit candidate 2nd on th 
"0419
1900-2000 Dance

-Ive been learning ballet from a child, like Vera. She danced four years ago with the same c "
Friday dance party! 
"0419
1900-2000 Dance

-Ive been learning ballet from a child, like Vera. She danced four years ago with the same c "
" He cant cross either.
But he loves to dance at the Emirates."
 i am Extremely Excited!! :D and i just can't get the dance and song out of my head it's the best thi 
 okay but ive been saying that. yall mad because we did a dance &amp; then get on here speaking ignorantly.
cant wait to get to palm springs so i can sing and dance to every song ever written about being 17
"My child just walked in the living room &amp;  said give me a beat, I instantly started beat boxing and she proceeded "
mine and lulah's snapchat dance battles &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
" This is my Patrick, the very center of my world. He loves to go shopping, singing super badly to th "
"  Bummer. I was planning to go, but my daughters dance recital and my sons end of season soc "
"45 minutes from now, we're gonna sing and dance and lose our minds in TwitchSings and you know you wanna be there. "
4 absolutely beautiful DIVAs ready for the big dance. Our Fairy Godmothers did an amazing job @ DIVADonations 
  These are fight club rules. If you go then you have to dance!
YAY! Dance  
Without MJ most of yall wouldnt know how to break dance and dont forget the legendary moon walk  
 I just want to dance TBH 
"    Exactly. 

Using your child to pull on people's heartstri "
2019 amazing   at Sydney's most innovative dance school. Guest teachers: Anna Kuroda of 
So I Wish I Could Dance
I heard from my irl friend that people in korea tends to took music or dance lesson incase their academic score is 
 cant wait for u to teach me dance
Good pussy make a nigga wanna dance 
"EPIC MIX 2019 | Best Remixes Of Popular Songs 2019 | EDM, Pop, Dance &amp; ...  via  songs mix dance"
 My favourite dance!
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Ragga
 - Thomas Newson
 "
baby vem no dance
" I will dance on a real mailbox for irl money, call me whatever you like. Fuckem."
Moby 'Bodyrock' - UK Dance version  
"Heres a song for you Somebody Dance with Me by DJ Bobo
"
"Sherrik, I had forgotten. Quite the number for a first dance."
Never have I ever wished so badly I could dance while watching Homecoming. Literally my kingdom for even a smidgen of coordination.
 I'll dance with u 
David Damboise bets you look good on the dance floor
"Has found a tape of her Master  doing some rather...inventive dance moves.

""Oh this looks more like "
right so my irl best friend told me she couldnt come to my party tonight cause she was away with her family but sh 
Just played: Dance With The Dead - From Hell (Loved To Death)
 you should hear my car concerts. dance away queen!
"It's April 19, 2019 at 07:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
  Oh cc isn't there a pole waiting 4 u to dance on? Try not to sprain your brain
Happy Dance! My article is in new issue of AspireMag. Thanks  Take a peek &gt; 
"*does default dance into a noose"" "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby In The Night by The Weeknd on  
Dave Stryker - After The Dance --   Good Listening
"Learn to dance with the difficult situations; abide in acceptance, grace, &amp; trust.  empoweredlife mindset"
Drinking an Use the NME by  @ Conservatory Of Music &amp; Dance  
 First Dance Vibes  Congratulations again to Sam &amp; Justin on your wedding! Thank you for allowing us and LA Starz 
"Tomorrow night check out Brian Sheil at JR's Comedy Club. Doors open at 5:30pm, show starts at 7. Brian puts on a "" "
"This is my fucking jam

May I Have This Dance (Remix) [feat. Chance the Rapper] by Francis and the Lights
"
"    I thought he was ""breaking ground"" back in February and h "
"Beyonce is greater than MJ or MJ is greater?

What are the stats?
What was the ease of music distribution then comp "
i love this sm bc theyre both so extremely talented but really did a simpler dance together bc they just wanted 
My 19 month old daughters favorite dance song is I took a pill in Ibiza. ParentingFail 
"Charles Dance is an interesting guy and a great actor

"
 Hahahaha but make sure you finish the dancing at home bcos if you do this kind of dance at the airport they will deny you visa 
"*does a happy dance because Im getting a whole cheese pizza, peppers, and garlic sauce from Papa Johns FOR MYSELF*"
"Jump higher with less pain...Dance Longer &amp; Dance Stronger...Wearing Apolla Shocks! 
apollaperformance "
"So true! 

.
.
.
.
.

dance arthurmurray dancer dancing danceclass dancestudio wedding weddingdance "
" time as Emperor.""

She then leans back into his arms. Continuing their little dance. 

""Let's go to a mo "
The Mavericks - Dance the Night Away
Never Have I Ever: dance with a girl in a party
"OSU just did their group square dance to Jacobson's routine, TAKE THAT NCAA and your ""group dances are prohibited rule"""
 That's worrisome. Two grown men dressed in green doing a dance routine. Looks like something my teen daughter would do.
Maxim Andreev feat.Natune - Hold Me (Nikko Culture Remix)   music edm club dance 
once i learn how to dance i will reach my final form
"Day 6 - Abis 18th Birthday Party 

Especially iconic moments included everyone rushing to the dance floor when Ha "
the best part about all these kpop groups coming on these US talk shows is how the american camera men have no idea 
  Its gone. Its been replaced by some sort of hoedown-in-a-suit dance
"Thanks for inviting me ""FILMY DANCE AND MODELING COMPETITION"" 2019
I m coming   hold your breath "
suddenly i wanna dance with him 
"This Lord of the Dance pose is brought to you by cloudy days and sleepless nights. 

Happy Good Friday!! 


yoga "
Theres a quick break in the weather tonight. Thanks to everyone who came to dance tonight! danceparty 
"New series! 
freestylefeelin every Friday for a month! {Maybe more ;)}
Note: These are NOT the best, as this is ju "
" Oichi does not seem to listen, she shakes her head. Locks of most silken black hair dance about with her movemen "
"  Heh, pretty darn funny and surely Mask would be asking if this is a new DANCE more then "
"someone just realised that they didn't add the most famous dances to this thread, i'm someone 

jisung's dancing to "
Anyone else slightly tired of seeing Ciara dance...
"If anyone asks you
how the perfect satisfaction
of all our sexual wanting
will look, lift your face
and say,
Like t "
PSY - GENTLEMAN Waveya sexy cover dance   
"i watched a woman get drunk off two margaritas, play cardi b during her entire meal, get up to dance in the middle "
Tryin out some dance moves london fun friends vacation trip spass 
"RIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIING RIIIIING
*turns off pomodoro timer*

and now... five minutes of dance party 

no more break, back to work"
Foot in mouth dance 
"    I merely asked you a question, very politely, which you ne "
Hey  u say you cant dance ? WTF.  Regina 
 Obstruction is a very serious crime!   High crimes and misdemeanors!  You are on limited time!  I 
Hello. You're certainly glowing today. Did someone dance for you?
" Interesting..white privilege allows them to assimilated and appropriate black culture, dance music, li "
Syracuse gets swept 4-0 by UNC. All the Orange can do now is wait for Monday nights selection show for the NCAA to 
SLOW DANCE / SLAKE / THE INVISIBLE FORCE
New dance craze? (Emphasis on craze) Getting the groove on w TroySanders (  (boomerang 
"avicii RIP 
This isn' t our last dance!  I 'll still dance with your music"
PSY - GENTLEMAN Waveya sexy cover dance   
Chrisbrown always been able to dance so good cuz he been a crackhead. 
 Do your song and dance man because you're not going to be president anyway
Best rock pop dance music Now Sussudio by Phil Collins on  
"Go dance in the daybreak, O Bird of Freedom
Arise, Lucrecia
Until you perish one day."
Then hit a little dance move and be like mmmmmmmm thats good!
 Traumatised fae all that highland stuff from school! Getting ready for the school disco and PE less 
Powerful dance from matriarchdanceco  | Be sure to join us on the campus of 2207 E. Cone Blvd at the Power Play Cen 
I like the way you kiss me when we playing the kissing game. Using a gif dance to the song. 
 okay lets have this dance battle tomorrow
"JackEL Live at SATURDAZE! Native to Edmonton, AB Canada, JackEL has been turning heads with his music since the ver "
  Put it this way if Sarah was a true friend she would never let you dance in public 
One World Dance in honor of Earth Day April 27 from 7-10pm. Enjoy dance music from around the world-$10. 
some of yall cant dance and it shows
 let's just dance
  Even if ibi highdown we go dance to am
"I'm irritated &amp; depressed by the fact that I can't sit without pain, walk past my driveway, run or dance at all. I' "
 Can we also learn the Thriller dance? BucketList
  LISTEN IT WAS OUR FIRST US RADIO NUMBER ONE (DANCE) I WILL NEVER LET PEOPLE FORGET IT
" after watching the dance sequence at least fifteen times, it makes strange things happen in my brain! hahhaha"
Gotta dance my pants off soon
 3 yrs ago. It was a 2-month standoff that ended when a guy named Leroy Finicum (!) got shot dead ma 
    An interesting band actually are Rudimental. They play everythin 
The dance tent at Coachella2019 Next to the big wheel which in this heat is basically a rotisserie 
"youtube: *try not sing/dance challenge kpop version*
me: try me bitch
first video: *agust d* 
me: "
" I was hoping for B BUT ..... I would braid his hair for him treat him right , we would do face masks al "
Dance for me my pretties 
remember when exo did the x2 speed dance bc every group was doing it and since sm wasn't sending them on variety th 
  dance break! 
"EPIC MIX 2019 | Best Remixes Of Popular Songs 2019 | EDM, Pop, Dance, Electro &amp; House Top Hits "
"NP  start to dance x  
on the the FridayNightMix w.  in the mix
YourNo1FamilyRadio"
Today has been a very long day.  I can't wait for tomorrow and I am praying for the best. It even feels like mother 
if i could dance with you again
"after fire, miroh is up next on the list of dances to learn  and after that ill be waiting for bighit to drop the "
 dance for you - beyonce
 The mom dance that she creating with her best friend amanda peet is sooo cute and amazing
Why did all of the social event in  have mazes? Ive never been to a dance or formal event with a maze just saying
My bf thought I didnt know how to dance banda but lil did he know HAHAHA his dad even asked me to dance cus i get down  sangresonorense
" It's now canon that these guys don't speak with simple words, but through the language of interpretive dance."
When you walk into the room with food and you close the door with your foot then do a dance for some strange reason 
"-BIGBANG-
  
LAST DANCE

"
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration | Daily Mail Online   
 She was pissed when a customer wouldnt pay for a lap dance.
" Even Jimin, who is amazing, puts a knee down to catch the fall. Jungkook just going for it is so impr "
 Love! But not sure if this kind of dance goes with your songs. LOL
Do my dance on your dick ohhoo you know you love that shit .
they dance wherever and whenever it doesnt matter if theyre in the middle of a crosswalk again 
"Now accepting applications for a  dance partner for ""Crazy Little Thing Called Love"" I have a big kitchen so you can flip me upside down!!"
My ass was practicing and forgot I had a solo wtf  I cant dance
" its the simple fact that if you dont want me to say nothing negative about yall school, then dont say "
Let's Start The Party! electronicmusic dj music techno edm housemusic producer dance rave party djlife 
 I wish I had half of those dance moves
"my knee is busted, i blew my back out at dance...I'm really out here walking around like a 90 year old who has had 2 hip replacements ..."
 Lmfao   sing and dance to make him feel like hes doing a good job
Seriously tho jimin park dance so beautifully!!! Legend 
The bbcyoungdancer competition got off to a good start tonight with  the finalists in the SouthAsianDance sector 
 Shake it girl  you Dance your heart out  forgot to post this with the gif 
   This is so me except I cant dance so I just look like a monkey. But yes this is so me 
It be so cringy and quiver to watch some of yall dance like just stop please like your dancing is intolerable unbea 
  too bad he didnt pour himself into COACHING DURING A GAME...he might still be coachi 
Mimi's DanceYourBloxOff Egg Hunting Tip 1: Team up with two other players and dance a trio! I you win any player 
" 

If you want to learn Liturgical(praise dance) for the summer!!!! Know anyone wh "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np RhythmOnTheLoose - Break Of Dawn Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
" Dance: What?

Lyric: ???

Music: You need to be careful Circus"
 Is it song and dance or just dance?
" Quest for Fire (1981), a small masterpiece.

Close behindSaturday Night Fever (1977). What can I tel "
" Oh, kiss me beneath the milky twilight.
Lead me out on the moonlit floor.
Lift your open hand
Strike u "
 I dont dance anymore either  so your outta luck
  Moana dance kid 
" Empty space - james arthur
Last dance - one ok rock"
Everybody Dance by CHIC is the best song ever released. 
mani: what new music? yall better dance to this old shit 
" You can do both. The problem isnt dance or rap or even football, the problem is not celebrating the "
    ach it was a just a wee original version of that song. Saying th 
" All set for the Big Dance, Lisa?"
" wow........... blocked
did you want A-Peace - Lover Boy (dance version) DVhd"
"NP  David Anthony  - Warriors Dance (Da Rumble)



WeAreGlobal
Afrohouse "
They sing and dance (oh whey oh) spin the clubs cruise down the block
Concur.  I'd pay real money to watch Adam Wainwright do the bull dance after getting a strikeout. 
The victory dance for coming in the house high af with food without waking anyone up 
"BTS - HOME x Airplane pt 2 | Magic Dance 
BTS MAP_OF_THE_SOUL_PERSONA HOME LOVE_YOURSELF ANSWER MagicDance "
 Looool if i go to those places i will dance extra  
Holy hell Europeans cant dance
 Someone forgot to sacrifice the intern and perform the sacred dance again.
I was standing outside the restaurant and a girl walked out and started doing a Fortnite dance does that give me permission to trip her?
With money you can even make a dog dance
" Solving the worlds problems through interpretive dance because lets be honest, your gender studies degre "
"We 4get, we 4give, we want 2 dance &amp; laugh &amp; love &amp; cry.  Nobody can tell me this isnt ur doing, God.  Your very b "
"The Dance is over
Face reality
Forget the sorrows
There's a lot to live
Have a ball while you can
Theres a lot true romance"
How am I supposed to only pick one Dan + Shay song for my first dance at my wedding 
"Ask me how I feel 
Happy Friday errbody
tgif dance "
 Btw have you hear lets dance boys brim the bayonetta OST?
" the L and the R do a beautiful dance in translation,

this is a waltz"
 Yeah! and during dance practices I watch the whole thing and then I watch the individual members lol. 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Ready Or Not by Fugees on  
I dropped an entire plate of noodles that I was an emo teen i destroyed all my old gundam wing fanfic and had a lot 
"Sun Apr 28 5:30p ""Student Showcase"" SB Dance Arts presents this exciting show full of youth-led performances! "
We cannot imagine not loving our nerd. It is a time of innocence. Love seems eternal. It is a magical time when eve 
"  screaming, you gone be back to doing the weave dance soon"
"NP G'z Dance 2  by IamThaBadGuy!
Download TAWSHR App
"
[Dance Video] Olamide  Spirit 
"GRAB THE TISSUES: This bride swapped her engagement photos to do a photoshoot with her dad, who was dying of prosta "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts   
 those dance moves tho!!!
 Lmao imagine our colorguard dance team doing this 
Best rock pop dance music Now My Maria by Brooks &amp; Dunn on 
    I was at the RHC Ingilston last week at an old rezerection with 
"She was more like a beauty queen from a movie scene
I said don't mind, but what do you mean, I am the one
Who will "
The latest The Total Dance  Tribune!  Thanks to    vegan dance
"Ya me puse bien: You make me dance, bring me up, bring me down, play it sweet, Make me move like a freak, Mr. Sa-xo-beat."
"Easter weekend stream starting now! Come by, say hi, play games with me! Lets Go!! Link in BIO! 
.
.
. "
" Beyonce also gives u stage visuals without the US of technology. She dances hard for 3 hours, hardly brea "
 now i just want to dance around a living room with you listening to once in a lifetime until we fall down
"Uhhhh,  are we just trying to act like the bunny is not doing the shoot dance. "
If you could give Lecav any dance for a victory motion in 2K what would it be?  The dance from MeMeMe. 
Also I made a whole dance routine to late nights by eli triplett  
 Promoting my business within the Memphis Tennessee and surrounding areas. Liturgical/Praise dance. 
workout of choice? just dance
" You're gonna wanna hear this retro dance house track, ""Relight My Fire"" a remake of the 1979 class "
Off menu: Dons had all the ingredients for a Saturn (me doing my hula-inspired happy dance)! classictiki gin 
So...my fianc just dragged me out of my bed so he could slow dance with me in our room to my favorite song. Cant wait to marry him
"Today, the newly released ""director's cut"" video of TMDC performing their exhibition dance to open the 2nd Act of D "
Dance with the devil: the colourful Mexican art form that summons demons   via 
I still love Five Star and their dance moves still rock. But am I seeing their final studio totp performance? totp87
  we don't have a dance che che
 My middle school dance strategy
"    Jenny went too low before blocking me:

""Guys just block t "
I decided my album is done. I hope people dance to it at home alone in their underwear
Who else remembers the long 9 years we went without the Leafs in the playoffs? I think about it at the start of eve 
 I found your two smallest but biggest fans. They only dance to your music. 
"To all my beautiful friends that colour my world, I wish you all a happy and safe easter... DANCE your little tails "
Do people still dance to Caramelldansen in 2019 lmao
Guys I can feel it in my bones. If home has a dance its gonna have body rolls. Its PERFECT for body rolls
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: When You Gonna Learn by Jamiroquai on  
"Funniest dance?
Love Kpop? Visit us:  "
Apple-Qualcomm-Intel Dance: What It Means for the Future of5G 
" Clive McDonald Music now playing on  with 5 albums: ''A Bloody Girl (A Drink)'', ''I Wan "
" Im over here hoping that those vinyl records being used is a sign that theyll release the dance games on vinyl, I can dream!"
After we Dance QueremosKallys3 QueremosKallys3 KallysMashup2 QueremosKallys3
*my dad talking to my aunt*: well I told him kathi needs to know if hes coming to the dance concert b/c it will s 
"i keep hearing people hype up yoongi and joons raps but WHERE TF IS HOBI HUH???? like i get it, some people have fa "
 omg im scared of mine getting too toned bc i used to dance for years i just want spongebob legs man
A jojo episode ending is always a sad time but atleast I get to dance like a fucking idiot to Modern Crusaders
 If only more men would learn to dance... there would be a lot more happy marriages
Sted-E - Hybrid Heights n Crystal Waters - Synergy (David Puentez Remix)  TheBlast  Dance
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Push The Feeling On
 - Nightcrawlers
 "
" Who the hell are you? You are an entertainer, you sing and dance for money as well as play fake pe "
 I have a dance comp in Fart of the City middle of next month?
are there strippers who dont pole dance? because i have no upper body strength.
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Sonance Sessions Ep4 7th Mar 2019 by sonance_events Listen again or download 
My little dragon can dance and dab too! FantasyFaireSL SecondLife  
"nowplaying  newmusic listento listentothis
electronica edm techno darktechno synth synthwave ravers "
"26. so it was 2016 and this girlie in computer class insisted on showing me bts's fire dance practice, it took awhi "
Now Playing:  Do Your Dance - Rose Royce  Listen Live:  
"Day 11 of 11, end:

Weekend is here!  Drink!  Revel!  Dance!  Fuck!  Slay your feeble gods and sing the song that h "
"  an ex-member of Toppdogg,Navinchi is going to Brazi (to do dance workshops) in August,as I kno "
 Last Dance
"  Let them sing and dance act a fool. This is not the end, we are not even close to the end. I "
 An eclectic celebration of THE DANCE!?!? 
     The shoulder thing isn't working o 
" ""We haven't won in so long, we'll dance about not losing."""
God's Great Dance Floor by Passion
" He can. But does he have the range and versatility Beyonc has? He can dance, he can sing, but to me they arent comparable."
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Clap Your Hands by David Guetta &amp; GLOWINTHEDARK on 
 We shall dance one day and pretend it is both our birthdays
 One song the other day made me realize how long its been since Ive a) played just dance and b) was 
 Dance dance beat baby!
    I think its the girls choice to wear dr marten since its 
  Her favorite dance  Im loving it tho
" 1/2 Heres the big guns, my list of mental health go tos: 
1. Water -shower/bath
2. Beach 
3. Wal "
" Being As An Ocean, Dance Gavin Dance, Silent Planet, Deftones. Thats just a few"
"Looking for a dance internship? Paid Summer Internship Opportunity, app due this Monday 4/22 "
  We see your dance at our stadium and raise a trophy at your stadium. 
Haven't I seen you somewhere before? You look familiar. You wanna dance? Yeah. I guess I just dont recognize you wi 
Green joins Dazzlers for 2019-20 season  
I dance nonstop when liq hits my system
Made Emily cry with my writing. Fucking jackpot. I won the lottery. Im doing a victory dance in a booth at Scooters.
Lets take a dance class why shadows
Dead Can Dances The Host of Seraphim is a perfect piece of music.
"Happy Friday! Have you seen this performance by fellow Canadian dancer, Briar Nolet? It is an awesome routine! "
Broadcasting NOW on Safehouse Radio : Sonance Sessions Ep4 7th Mar 2019 by  Listen again or download 
  I love watching this man dance THE MOST like over every bias I have he just dazzles me like some dancing siren!
"It's beginning to look like most folks in the dance and music community were not swayed by the ""documentary"" cc "
crazy how my ex used to fight me for liking another guys pic but my man tells me he understands if i dance with oth 
"Bar life looks good on you jduns29 , especially when youre being carried around on the dance floor by a random old "
"Happy Friday! Have you seen this performance by fellow Canadian dancer, Briar Nolet? It is an awesome routine! "
Jin improved SO much in dancing..he looks so much more relaxed and natural while executing the dance moves and i ke 
 Caution: May spontaneously burst into song and dance and has zero regard for what you may think or feel about it
"My kid just informed me, a new dance for fortnite leaked on the youtube. The Ska dance, or Skank if you will. I hat "
I am no one to judge but if you are catholic and you planing to go dance today at night well friend your doing the 
Nobody asked me for a dance I'm offended
The woah only got big cause its the only dance white people can do
A dance group dancing of Da Dirty So Jersey-Sean Cos Mason- Dance Choreography  via  
"If you can dance, you can dance, shouldnt matter on your size!!! Ive always loved performing, but youll never se "
yall gotta give lil nate respect for doing his dance 
Its Friday  do the  happy dance!  She and  are coming your way at the bottom of the 
" I make my morning coffee part of the routine with Grayson and let him dance to the coffee grinder, sti "
 bruh im literally listening to it right now and doing the dance
"Congrats to Bubba, our new football coach at OCC! gocoast "
Finally AJ going to a dance.  Praise the lord....  at Joseph A. Bank Clothiers 
"""To dance is to be out of yourself. Larger, more beautiful, more powerful."" -Agnes De Mille-"
Have another lil dance :3 
My life needs more dance numbers and heartfelt monologues.
        Marc and I are currentl 
"It's Easter Monday 2019 and fresh off of 420 weekend, so JAMJAM is gonna be crazy!  We welcoming DeejayDougie Doug "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Float With Me - David Latour - Swift K.I.D. on  
DANCE DANCE DANCE TILL YOU DEAD
 dance moves come flooding back!! Buzz 
"""The only way to make sense out of change is to plunge into it, move with it, and join the dance.""
        ~ Alan Watts"
"FGLD!  Fuck Genres, Let's Dance FGLD ""MAXIMONO X MARTEN HRGER - SWITCH (Original Mix)"" by This Ain't Bristol on "
tarian joget is lit too  it seriously hype me up to the point where i want to dance as well. everything about cult 
  I hope hes from the John Sergeant school of dance.  
"Holy Crap, I also got the Uforce tank with the mod
Didn't even realize that until I started reading the paper work "
 after playing for a month non stop the game is getting boring. Its not like Division 1 with its stay pow 
"That nigga said, I like white girls, baby, save the last dance..

Fuck."
Sapna Choudhary LATEST Dance Video: Haryanvi dancer knows how to pull off Barati dance perfectly 
Stephens signs with Dazzlers  
  And now we dance!!! 
" I-... I thought for a long ass moment that it was dance practice for Boy with Luv and was like ""what is "
  I love the dance you done it's cool tweet back  x
??? I dont even like Beyonce like that but she can dance boyyy 
backstage about to Dave on in Dance Nation by Clare Barron nofilter 
 Oil fund shunned. Well throw cheese at you whilst you dance in buttery heaven. Youll be the Grand Tit City.
Rasputin on Just Dance 2 was probably the most physically demanding thing ive ever done in my life
" this dance combines with any song, Brazilians are awesome"
  Their ballads were the best. One of the only groups that could hold my attention while perfor 
 Nugget dance!! 
Tomorrow catch me at 90s Fest Sheffield Dance Anthems Arena at 620pm then the Easter Love Rave In London 
"Just dance -&gt; sweet but psycho
Eh eh -&gt; so am i
Poker face -&gt; ???"
Best rock pop dance music Now Ticket To Heaven by Dire Straits on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Ritme Van De Spits by jo vervaet on 
"this is a YANAN zone only, if you dont look like YANAN, sing like YANAN, rap like YANAN, dance like YANAN do not i "
Even with Democrats denying the Muller Report. I am still dancing about No Collusion.  Dance with me ok? Watch your 
" Not bad. On loud i could dance to it, down low i could relax to it. Well done"
"Enjoy this Soul Classic from Michael Egleton Music, ""Baby Baby Baby (the remix)"" by Michael Egleton - "
I just came back from my dance production and I am dead
"1-2-3
1-2-3

Ready... Get set... 1-2-3!
Do you wanna dance with me?1-2-3 BAWDIES"
"i feel so old y'all, it seems like yesterday all i ever wanted was to do the lipgloss dance at magcon and now nash' "
It is so easy playing music for drunkards. They scream anytime you change the song.  On that note i will be DJing f 
Then again this me lmao because Dance for you came on!   going kill me 
"Since then I have seen live:
Phantom of the Opera x3 (HH)
Phantom of the Opera 2 x2 (HH)
The Lion King x1 (HH)
Tarz "
"Cultural appropriation? I had a laugh and yes, white men cant dance! Yeah I said it!!!  "
 has you covered in LA for your 420 turn up! 420 turnup Exclusive swag VIP SaturdayNight 
 Show me this killer dance
" Hey, it's me again how are you?I hope you're happy and good. Today's your performance was great You realiz "
"Walk, dance and strut your stuff on the Red Carpet for Opening Night of the 14th Annual Sunscreen Film Festival!  N "
"Romney is so desperate to rain on Pres. Trump's parade, he's asked Senator Warren to perform a rain dance. Do "
 baba watin u de dance
"u want to be happy? go buy a record player, then get a couple of your favorite albums to listen to. dance around ur "
  She only texts using emojis. Cause thats most like an interpretive dance.
"Stop whatever youre doing, and watch John Boyega dance to the New Jack Swing classic, Yo! Thats a Lot of Body b "
"Virgin - Only You (1989)

 DANCE "
"Let's Dance!  

Repost  (get_repost)

TGIF!  is back for an  extended set for "
 Never the dance floor
Diversitys new dance troop 
This urban thriller is frightening and captivating with lots of twists and turns. DevilWindsDance urbanthriller 
-  plays on SoundcheckiRadioNetwork  TheBlast  Dance
"I know youd dance on my grave 
Not every soul can be saved"
"and he instantly got up and told me to dance with him. there wasnt rlly any music playing but we slow danced, and "
WE WANT DIONYSUS DANCE PRACTICE
J-HO Choreo Class | BTS - HOME | Justjerk Dance Academy  via 
 I just went with the flow knowing that Washington at present is weirder than we can possibly imagine 
  I would laugh so hard if tomorrow Pelosi came out on tv and did a robot dance and said I 
"Always dance to your own beat, even if you dance alone"
Jordan Peele didnt direct the living hell out of that I Got 5 On It dance sequence to not place  
Have to post my polrle dance presentation as promised but I'm procrastinating it lol
And when a new episode came on I would dance along to their count in my sala lol... I was just a little girl with a wishful dream
 hes a sponge he picked that up quickly and DID IT FLAWLESSLY the only reason I know the choreography is 
Always the best hits. And now I Won't Dance by Oscar Peterson on  
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Chiclete Com Banana by Gilberto Gil on  
It's Friday and I need an unironic dance party tonight.  yo!....got an extra pair of light up shoes in an 11.5?
"  a dance beat I loved for many a party!!
Easter party mix!


"
"
 
Look what you've  done to me
The perfect slow dance song"
i remember in 7th grade we had an assignment where we had to get in groups of 3 and had a week to make a dance toge 
I like the dance you made it's cool
"Seriously. The best. Have had the album on repeat for half the day. It probably would have been on repeat all day, "
When does  not dance please
" Music: ....oh

Dance: Ok

Lyric: ....ok...."
Hey  ...when are you going to show your face!! My kid wants to watch you dance!!!! 
 nowplaying Maroc Blues - Web Web (Dance of the Demons - 2018)  
"""Fina I can't stand-; i mean we can dance if you want but if I fall then-;

   I'm kissing the floor."""
Tunein for David Guetta - The World is Mine Dance House Club Techno Disco  
IM CROSSING MY GODDAMN FINGERS FOR BOM TO ACTUALLY DANCE A LITTLE IN THIS CB her dancing is so adorable  and i kno 
Dance_Lesson  via  my husband getting back from a gig teaching his baby girl how to 
 This is our happy dance.  
"Why is it again that I come to Italy to dance tango...?Tango Festival 2019 underway, Sala di Diana, La Reggia Venar "
  if he was there
"Its Friday Night! 
Come on out!!!
Exclusive Drink and Dance Specials all night 
plantcity fridaynight party "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np UndergroundPosse - Straight Up Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. 
 EVERY TIME U DANCE WITH SOMEBODY I WANT YOU TO FEEL ME
"Not only did the  help organize tonights event, they also brought some great dance moves to the cele "
"Come join the fun at our annual Casino Night with a twist, Red Carpet!  Come dressed in your Red Carpet Attire (if "
"Every time someone goes to me he wants to dance and my same excuse is I cant dance, soooo um lets go get a drink instead "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Pull Up To The Bumper by Grace Jones on  
currently listening to thick as a brick by jethro tull with same old song and dance by aerosmith as an interlude be 
"dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tgif, teeth, viernes, chri "
"followme dance memories

Cosmic Forces Print 3D Space Galaxy Zip-up Hood ...  "
Jazz has been the source of unity among people and a means of self-expression through music and dance. Add jazz to 
Dance the night away 
"bts: so how's the dance for dionysus?
the choreographer: The FitnessGram Pacer Test is a multistage aerobic capaci "
TGO Entertainment is on the way to deejay at Donald Eismann elementary school dance
"One more this NewMusicFriday -  's remix of  's ""Bleeding on the Dance Floor"" "
i should start a youtube channel where i just talk about dumb shit and post dance covers
Let Us Dance Just A Little Bit More(Extended Dance Mix)Secret service
Let's go baby and dance now What They Do by The Roots on  
   all the winners in one dance would be epic!!
Cutest little fish in the whole sea. ballet dancer pinnochio @ MarLo Dance Studio 
   Tyler there is no dance Ive seen you do that doesnt look like someone having a se 
"Like a dance


 "
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Pale Shelter by Tears For Fears on  
Uuuuuhhh shut up and dance with me
Father daughter dance before he passed away... 
If I dont go dancing soon imma fight someone. I just wanna dance to bachata and merengue 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Badman
 - Sunnery James, Ryan Marciano, Dj Dyna
 "
 BRING MONICA THE DANCE MACHINE FROM BASELINE CHALLENGE BACK
"I dreamed someone called Ben Robin Banks be allowed to attend the dance, so they sent two boys in a cow costume instead."
Like pop music? How about dance? trance? Our new show airs Saturday the 27th at 11pm eastern time. Hosted by the 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino My Funny Valentine by Chet Baker on  
"This is MAGA for sure...
"
NowPlaying Dance With My (feat. Kelsea Ballerini by Morgan Evans 
Bighit WHERE ARE THE DANCE PRACTICES AT
""" promiekins where is that dance?""

Puzzled for a moment"
Found a new club to dance at its lit
"Latest from NYTimes

City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts
An arbitrator rul "
boys that like to dance&gt;
I may or may not have just bought Just Dance for the Switch 
   lol its literally no different than an NFL player doing a TD dance. Why 
13. Just dance for ever
Wishing You All a GREAT WEEKEND ahead with lots of Relaxing &amp; Fun  Weekend Fun Joy Peace Relax TDFfamily 
"All Wired Up is a micro-festival packed with top performers, video art, a huge array of electronic instruments and "
Havent danced in a while. Decided to dance and Im just sweating like a goat.
With Decades Of Business Experience And Almost 20 Years Of Dance Background American Dance Championships Is T 
"The only thing I want from Endgame is IF Captain America dies, Steve gets to finally have his dance with Peggy Cart "
 In the dance studios maybe 
"Tomorrow is the day!! Make sure you come link up with us at the Day Party  




angelicavila rocnation "
After we dance Queremoskallys3
You dont want to miss the Health &amp; Physical Literacy Summit 2020.  healthed physed pete hete tech dance 
"TOMORROW: Join VeRVE Collisionz for the 12th annual street dance competition! Doors open at 6:30 p.m., show starts "
Catherine at a dance competition! CursedChildNYC  
"I like to dance, okay. calm down, son.
Im not there for people to watch.
Honestly if anyone ever gets this, just ke "
Mystery as some residents hearing dance classics blaring across West Dublin  Dublin Live 
"Dance or Die 
This really happens. Researchers have proven this over and over. Its why past memories c "
Radiohead al final de Shut Up and Dance es tan &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
TONIGHT! Lets see what you got. Everybody to the Dance Floor! 
TONIGHT! Lets see what you got. Everybody to the Dance Floor! 
There's nothing like a Friday night party with DJ Uncle Joe heating up the night spinning your favorite R&amp;B music f 
Riley Dance Marathon in full swing!  So proud of our students  and  for their lead 
"ALBUM REVIEW (7.5/10): ""   has the answer and Till the Dance Do Us Part is the right album for you!"" "
"[] Yes Im Funny as shit
[] Yes Im overprotective 
[] Yes I can fight 
[] Yes I am supportive 
[] Yes I do ge "
"A frog taught me how to cross a street. When my house was haunted, I learned how to eat ghosts. And this thing taught me how to dance."
Today we lament. For Sunday we dance.
Im making up a dance alone in my room in the bathroom rn.
" Vocal, dance
Anak tengah
Brandnewmusic 
Im young min "
All jokes aside... Have yall every tried to dance for 2 minutes straight of choreo? Irk how Beyonce and her crew did it ..
Am I the last to find out that JoJo Siwa was on dance moms
"Mood: Bizarre Love Triangle, New Order. Im immediately transported to fall 1986, Queens University at Kingston, d "
  Can you do an Indian dance for impeachment?
"GUNHYPE TVBLAZE IT UP vol.2 Sep.16"" DANCE LECTURE""  "
"Tough fight! Defeating this mini-boss made me do my victory dance!
sekiroshadowsdietwice  
"
  He didnt sing mercy or ruin! To preserve his voice I think which Im glad. We sang as l 
I can't believe my theme for the dance wasn't chosen.
"T.G.I. FRIDAY, AUSTIN! You survived the week, now head down to 4thStreet and play with us this weekend. "
Busy Week? Didn't Get to Workout? Don't Worry - Saturday Mornings - Zumba @ 8AM - Dance &amp; Sculpt @ 9AM - Comprehens 
"I wanna just dance
But he took me home instead
Uh oh!There was a monster in my bed
We frenched kissed on a subway t "
"""Just as many of you do, I juggle diaper changes, feedings, and snuggles with puzzles, Legos, and stories. I toggle "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Marshmello's Here With Me (feat. CHVRCHES) 
"Now Playing: 107tan / ""Sakura Destiny"" [Album: AD:Electronic Dance 3 (2013)] [Series: N/A]"
" Lol but Ill admit I cant dance, whats your excuse?"
playlist sing dance FF doorway2fandom twitter NOW   
Don't miss your opportunity to see The Alvin Ailey Dance Theater in Baltimore next Tuesday and Wednesday!  Discou 
Carrie Lucas - Dance With You
"The streets of Lagos 

Them dey dance, smoke, piss, eat food and at the same time Music is playing with high level "
        
"Yep that's me and  enjoying a song and dance. 
Thanks   "
I went from wearing a 2x to medium  yeah I think imma do a happy dance 
"  The low-key part is, i don't dance "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
The dance he does at the end when he eats his food is me  
" Oh OK. I'll have to check it out. For a second the name sounded like the new wave/90s dance on this track.
"
" Agreed! I think we did ourselves proud on this one 

Also, this song was the first dance at my sist "
"Bands Ive seen more than once so far:

Korn(2)
Dance Gavin Dance(4)
Silversun Pickups(3) 
Porter Robinson(3)

By t "
Cochella Lostucanesdetijuana I need to dance LaChona 
Officially finished the coursework (and exams!) for my Master's degree. Final project starts Tuesday. The end is in 
"  Lol, I can't imagine what people would think watching me at 44 sing and dance to ""the "
I love Vanessa shes always down to dance  
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np All Right Now by Free on  
The Feed: Dance music diva  is taking care of business with her own label and a new beat. Catch her a 
Fortnite challenge : 1 kill = 1 dance  via 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Stay The Night [12 Version] by Billy Ocean on 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby A Los Que Manejan El Cotarro by Porretas on  
" Room Ideas: dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce "
Easy Guide to Dance Shoes: What to Wear to Your Next DanceClass  
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  LINKIN PARK -  Castle Of Glass 
Ecoutez nous sur : "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  |  
"She's in love with who I am
Back in high school, I used to bus it to the dance"
" Music: ......

Dance: ???? *mind: Wait what....*

Lyric: ....uh...."
"Last ladies night was my birthday last year. I am SOOOOOO ready for 420, tequila &amp; dance party at the Basement tomo "
Info and tickets:  
if youve never uploaded a dance cover of hare hare yukai on youtube in 2007 straight up go die alone and loveless
" She really sing goodbut danceno, nonooo, Jlo please help Sia with some steps Puerto Rico "
Me on the dance floor after a sniff of gin 
 I'll dance for hummus any day
Ever wanna dance sexy?!  All in the delicate hips.
Dance anyone? 
"
- I
Can't
Let
You
Go
So
Take
My
Hands
Let's
Dance

wetrustdaniel
beyourselfdaniel
 strawberry
A Peache "
 i allow my soul to dance  i half to even if no one eles does god knows i do.
 Don McGahn should b doing a happy dance and throwing glitter!
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Ain't That Just The Way by Lutricia McNeal on 
"Starboy records gave a nice jolt of energy to the Nigerian music industry.   with the fun, dance and c "
"Dance Furiously has our next show tomorrow evening in CINCINNATI at The Drinkery in Over-the-rhine!

Do I know anyo "
NONE OF YALL BETTER SLEEP ON THIS ALBUM IT MAKES U WANNA DANCE AND FEEL GOOD 
" Absolutely Amazing, can I have the next Dance? "
"   Hey, with your talents for creative ""interpretation"" does that extend to interpret "
love the way all non-dancers call every dance vid they see a cover lol what
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Rhythm Is A Mystery Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
" Drink like a pirate, dance like a mermaid  "
Now playing: SALSOUL ORCHESTRA - DANCE A LITTLE BIT CLOSER
ATTENTION: I am looking for 2 of Rochester's  best dance group! I will be giving away $200 in cash to the winning g 
Still sad that in ThePerfectDate that Laura and Noah didnt dance like they did in Austin and ally 
  Tell me about it! I've had 3 in the last two years. One a hernia with mesh from my dance days 
Hahahaha when your car gets stuck and the sun is shining. Time to dance in the mud hahahahahaha 
" Nah for real tho, Sally isn't a good rapper just let Mina have everything and give her the dance breaks "
"Social Dance Oahu: Oahu Dance  What do we dance? Not yet,  but we are getting closer all the time. Social Dancing."
"ive literally been binge watching dance moms on yt and now i just follow maddie and kenzie,,,,, yall dont mistake me for a local"
The dance turkeysoftwitter 
today at 12CST... working out in the gym between clicking on the JeffreeStarCosmetics website to get me some conce 
How to Dance. 
"  Need more videos of him, can't get enough of watching him dance "
if the first dance at my wedding isnt to no control we getting divorced that same day
"City Ballet has been ordered to reinstate Amar Ramasar, after it fired him for behavior like the below. Who would w "
 yes and the video's hes posted on twitter of him learning house dance and he did indeed post abt hip 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby A Los Que Manejan El Cotarro by Porretas on  
So yeah remember I thought the dance moms were annoying?! Its actually the grandmas. 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: I'm So Excited by The Pointer Sisters on  
Via  City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  
" John ""Kevin"" Johnny Pemberton was born in the wet frozen woods of Minnesota where he developed his "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts  
I cant even describe how refreshing and reassuring it is to hear women speak positively about their experiences ha 
Serious question: how do people wear platform boots to festivals? Can you dance/shuffle? Do they not kill by the en 
 Cuz she's mad  how can you not know Flash Dance 
"This is my happy dance/happy face, like when I FINALLY updated the calendar on my website through May!
Thanks for t "
High School Fitness Dance Routine  via 
"Cant get any of the ravaz dance moves? 

Stick to what youre used to  

Come Willie Bounce &amp; Summer Swing on May "
"Yall should dance Tender Love like this! Ahahaha Jongin why so extra!?!

KAI   JONGIN    "
"  Ive seen you dance, and there is no fixing that train wreck "
" i'll never love again - lady gaga
last dance - bigbang
climax - iKON"
 Theyre probably doing the Mypos Dance of Joy.
"I really just want to see a Beyonc &amp; J. Lo collaboration. Two entertainers who can dance and sing, it would be nothing short of amazing."
  at least theyre having fun and dancing.... so these girls cant dance to that music without ridicule?
one and only dance king 
"Original Techno Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Instrumental Electro
Synth "
Starset - My Demons is on    DANCE 
NowPlaying on Angie FM: Do You Wanna Dance? [Kd] - The Beach Boys retro   
I get in the feels every time I hear Keeper of the stars cause I know thats gonna be my first dance song. Future 
 Time for a DANCE BREAK.
"Original Techno/Trance Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Trance Synth EDM Pop "
 I love  the arts but I was born a farmer. Its because as a nation we decided we needed to eat we didn 
" only racists could dance that well

(Settle down I'm kidding..I am just being a Democrat for a day!! Haha!!)"
"Wait they brought back Charles Dance just to be a corpse for like 2 seconds?
GOT S5E1"
"Original EDM/Industrial Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


EDM Industrial Dark "
I just dropped a Dance vibe on Soundcloud. Yall check it out. The link on bio. Share cuz it could be his/her fave 
Oh thank god it changed to Just Dance 
One day at this job Ill be comfortable to dance while walking to the floor like I used to at my last place
The dance machine in Barcadia had unlimited credit tonight and I've actually never sweated so much in my life. All 
Marked as to-read: The Last Dance by Aimee Brown 
"Original EDM Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


EDM Instrumental Dirty House
Techno "
I wanna dance until both of my legs feel like two fucking krroqe!
Taemin's next choreography will most likely have a stage with bars he can hang dance on 
 dance man do flip oooh that mean he no beat women - everyone that still likes chris brown in 2019
Why does Ian alleyne and swizzle stickman  dance like that ? Is that a central man thing ?
HELLO PARTY PEOPLE I CANT JOIN YOU SO ILL CELEBRATE YOU..WHEN U HIT THE FLOOR TONITE DANCE A DANCE FOR ME &amp; MY mommA!
do my shmoney dance then i catch a body...
"Original House/EDM Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


House EDM Dance Club Party Synth "
 Was that a long time ago? I remember a story about a group of men who went and shot all these bird 
"Your dime, your dance floor. RIP, Chet Coppock. He was a voice of my childhood, and I love how would he was a rin "
Can't wait to see Buffalo Strange back together again for One Night Only at  on May 11th! 
 It sucks girl. I know how you feel
NowPlaying Dance Spirit by Late Night Early Mornings (Bedouin Remix) on 
 Nah for real! I told myself Im not gonna stop watching til I learn all the dance moves but especially that one
"Original Trance Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Trance Instrumental Music
Electronic "
   Ee...Ee!!! No wonder that high jump-dance they do without running out of energy
 Vivi is a beautiful young lady! Are you returning to Dance Moms?
"With the addition of Luwane Pipkins, it takes care of the Friars point guard issue and allows Reeves and Duke to br "
"Original Trance/EDM Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Trance EDM Dance Club
Music "
 Make it a Halloween dance practice and then were getting somewhere
    I blocked them a long time ago.  I have better and 
dance in the dark
  I'll try to resume. China is trying to be more efficient so they can produce more. Po 
  Hi Simon. Love the soundtrack to the Fc barca movie. Great job. Is it available online t 
 It was 2001 but take a look at the crowd at the Fatboy Slim Brighton Beach gig for an eye-opener. Dance mu 
Had a great time warrenearlychildhood for readwithacop. The preschoolers got to show off their dance moves to Ofc. 
"   Trump thought that his sycophant AG Bill Barr could just ""white wash"" the "
 I read shoulders and Uzi and it reminded me of that time at Kendras pops when bad and bougie first d 
 I love it when cows dance.  I used to lead our herd from the back pastures. Once they got site of th 
Flat | Caroline (Tango) Dance starts flat off for the Aggies with a 231 aboard Vinnie! gigem 
"Original House/EDM Instrumental Enjoy!

Soundcloud


House EDM Dance Club Party
Synth "
 It'll be the poll dance that got you the 2 new followers! Probably lost you the other one for the same reason 
   check this out and watch anakin kill it in a dance off with Obi Wan
  He did... but please lets not act like he cant dance his ass off in general. This is 
 and i will dance for Lou !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! im gonna make him love me hes gonna make me breakfast
"workout tip if you can't go to the gym: put on your favorite hoe anthem, dance until ya can't anymore, then BOOM th "
 I think they're setting something up. Maybe another dance with dragons
"Ooh yay I got my first aggressive ""hate"" on vrchat 
""Hey you, you fucking degenerate dancing. Nobody's f-ing watchi "
" Hahaha...I guess you can't read...Barr can do a song and dance to keep your supporters fooled, but "
So my friend went to singing to ready to party at a club. He currently playing show me love. He going hard. You can 
I sure hope you are not expecting everyone to dance to the same tone? He criticise when necessary and commend when 
Ya'll my friends and I are going out later on! Can't wait to get lit and dance my ass off  
Im getting a pedicure and the owners little boy and this little girl who is with her mom are having a dance compet 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Stay The Night [12 Version] by Billy Ocean on 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Too Hot by Kool &amp; The Gang on 
Sometimes default dance
UW Theatre and Dance Closes Season with The Robber Bridegroom | News | University of Wyoming  uwyo
 W...t...f I- SHE NEEDS TO LEARN HOW TO DANCE 
"  Oh, EJ. You know my Sis better than that don't you? 

Maybe he doesn't, Roze. I do and l "
   doing the Duursma dance!
Awwww cant actually wait to dance with my favourite girls tomoz   
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Crush by Jennifer Paige on  
   How could it not be 
"RULE THE STAGE!

 My Stage Dynamics &amp; Performance Prep workshop is
Sunday, April 28 
3:30-5:30pm
Dance Garden 3191 "
" As the figure walked away, the sound of the room's door opening could be heard.

""Until the dance. Nya~""

It slammed shut."
Im sad to say that the dance season is coming to an end. I want to thank these wonderful ladies of the afroDancehal 
"cry hard, dance harder
"
My spring jams so far have been Hot as Ice x Britney Spears and If U Cant Dance x Spice Girls .... guess Ive been 
"Ive noticed MacKinnons grown into himself.  When he started, he was kind of finesse and that was it.  Now, hell "
"  I never knew old nad could tap dance like that

""...well ah, well ahhh..."" "
"    Exactly. 
Hey- I didn't lose any of MY money... it's her that got scammed. "
The beat made me hit a dance right in my bed 
Should I put on a kimono and dance around to Goodbye Horses while the ATT guy comes to install my internet tomorrow morning?
"Turn it up time!
Holly Starr - Run the Race (Matthew Parker)
Matthew Parker - We Will Dance (feat. Amor Wonder)
Red "
"I want to touch with your parents, so you'll go to the dance with me"
"  And Tae, too. You forgot, our king of stage presence, producer, lyricist/composer, songwri "
"   Iconic in three senses of the word - one of Madonnas best works, something t "
"&lt; Todays CruisingwithTheGingerSibs is NeverGiveUp by  l &gt;&gt;&gt;

thewordofGod Christian "
RD2 at  tonight! The suns been out and the town seems in great spirits! See you on the dance floor 
 i thought this was safety dance at first
Watching my students dance and now I miss having youthful knees  
"Dance to the beat of your own Unlimited plan, with 50 million songs at your fingertips. IamVZ "
bey looked so good doing the deja vu dance break whew
Ive been waiting all week for this dance class tonight + it was just canceled bc of the weather
Bruhh when she say she likes niggas who can dance .... 
" *Dream starts to dance, she is a really good dancer*"
 Thank you for this dance and Happy Easter friend !
 THE CRUNCH IS GONNA COME FOR ALL OF US AND HELL BE DOING THE SHOOT DANCE WHEN HE DOES
 I've been exploring their music and don't think I've found a bad song yet. Dance macabre is awesome too! It has an '80s vibe.
"You dont want my love? If you dont care about me, I'll just dance with myself! Back on my beat! "
 My favourite dance song from Beyonc!! Cant breathe watching these two kick it
Nas - dance has got to be top 10 saddests songs ever
Let's go baby and dance now Naked by Dev &amp; Enrique Iglesias on  
  so its pretty much a competition the judges Girls that dance Im sure the same exact dance. But b 
"Had to correct my son calling Carlton Banks's dance ""the fortnite"" dance smh "
This bot is cool because we had learned the same dance in PE class.
"    Just remember, women dance the same steps as a man, just backwards and in heels."
  Jagger Gorillaphent? You upload a Just Dance vid somewhere?
"  Damn right. I'm so tired of condescending feminists getting outraged on my behalf. 

He k "
Imagine slapping the offering bowl out of the usher's hand at church and then doing a fortnite dance
Super happy I got to dance banda ln 
I AM SO EXCITED TO BE SHARING THIS WITH YOU ALL! Adams one request for the wedding was that we do a choreographed 
just remembered how sm uploaded ooh la la dance practice video on their channel for 5 mins and then deleted it shjs 
 I love the sure dance 
who the fuck told her she can dance 
 She cannor even dance 
        
   Don't think he meant it in an offensive way....
. someone from the dance community just shared his feelings about MJInnocent 2/2 cc  
Im one of the first ppl to schmoney dance on the Great Wall of China
Cosmicity - Orange (Dance Mix)
Music: Jay Trigga x Dremo  Make Em Dance (Remix) Dremo JayTrigga MakeEmDance(Remix) Trendingblizz 
 What hpn?
"Through patchwork fields 
And shaded forest glades, 
I trudge forever on, 
Into the Light of knowing 
Where Being s "
Nu on air: Jack Priest - Weekend Dance 
. someone from the dance community just shared his feelings about MJInnocent 1/2 cc  
" Its so terrible but also slaps. Also considering Blood On The Dance Floor consist of convicted nonces, i "
"Last Friday Nite, we were in a dance club in Mexico with some really great friends. Oh and with A POOL! "
OHHHH I EANNA DANCE EOTH SOMEBODU
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : One More Day &amp;40;Nicky Romero Remix&amp;41;
 - Afrojack x Jewelz x Sparks
 "
theres a story going around that apparently one time a trainee was kicked out for not bowing to somebody like they 
" She no sabi dance, let her meet an Owerri woman for coaching."
International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers 
"Parents: check out ""How to Blorrble-Blobble"" for a fun stress-free way to introduce your teens to the meaning and i "
Let's go baby and dance now Freedom To Love by Lexter on  
Dai Kelly ironing the 18th green to a polonaise dance walesgolf GolfWales Pembrokeshire Pembrokeshiregolf 
 I think her chances are less than 1/1024! Que rain dance!!
  In my story Dorothy's dog Toto gets sacrificed by the munchkins and they dance in 
Just dance: 
"""I have no idea, I mean that's how Ryan rolls so we will wait and see, I have a pretty full dance card but you know "
Live like each day is your last! Love like you have never been hurt before! Sing like no one is listening! Dance like no one is watching!
"Many colleges are having dance breaks to help combat stress during exam week.
I like that idea.
First on the playli "
Do you know where to party tonight? I do. in VR or Desktop in the Wave VR. Come with me to dance the night away to 
 I asked my kid to teach me a dance that I saw on it...not going great.
Wobble Up by Chris Brown/Nicki/G-Eazy is definitely a song I wouldve ran to the dance floor for at 3D 
  I think he could be the little one on the sidewalk. He already has some costumes and has th 
" understatement to her prominence.

He did the same. An inhale, than an exhale. The smoke does its dance "
    ok but props to u han for these  dance moves
 Try waist dance na.. that one is mot hard
"BISH FHJDOSK I GOT CHILLS OMG A DAMN PERFORMER LIKE THE VOCALS, THE BAND, THE DANCE "
I get the entire house to myself for the rest of today. What do I do? I turn all of my music on loud and sing and d 
  ma dance moves were just too good x
i still cant believe dustin didnt get a dance at the snowball
"Enter to win a Prize Pack featuring Orangutwang, Mad Moves Dance Game and an Aqua Diver (RV $58) from "
" Music: Really

Dance: .....

Lyric: You need to get some kind of leash that she cant get of if for her"
 youre invited to my dance performance. Its today or tomorrow. You can pick.
Heres a tough riddle for you: I'm as small as an ant and as big as a whale. I'll approach like a breeze but can c 
Dilemma: what to read next Dance of Dragons or the Mueller report? 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Grampa's Party Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. 
 This is our Jaden. He is walking joy. He loves to dance. Offers hugs to make sure everyone is happy 
  Anyone still siding with   and the rest of the opportunist Russiagate Denier Brig 
   Love this  Such a great concept. And what better way for couples to try t 
You do see some unexpected connections on Twitter. Parks RTing Terry Edwards tweeting about listening to banging da 
 why go to a concert if u dont wanna dance and sing?? (obviously only if ur able to)
"Enter to win a Prize Pack featuring Orangutwang, Mad Moves Dance Game and an Aqua Diver (RV $58) from "
 If I were to play Betty Wrights tonight is the night in front of either of my siblings we would all sta 
pppft girl. i will put on this exact outfit and strut along the beach in venice and wait for a boy who looks like t 
 doing the bird mating dance. Be still my heart.
    There we go. Jenny just blocked me. What is she hiding? Wh 
TONIGHT! MORRISSEY + THE SMITHS Night {Underground} DTLA 2 Floor Blowout CALL/TEXT YOUR FRIENDS &amp; GO UNDERGROUND! 
Give me the Music ..          
"EVERYBODY DANCE NOW. Music Class with  is next!

TheClassHRoom MusicClass "
Watch NadhaSangamam  @ 10.00 AM 20.04.2019 Only On Your Channel  PodhigaiTamil DoordarshanTamil 
  Iconic x
"hello second day of work went well, I made a few mistakes but nobody made a big deal of it  then I went straight to dance so I'm tired "
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
Always the great music. Now Let's Dance by David Bowie on 
need to get back into dance  ffs
 This is my dance after listening to Pete Buttigieg. The man is smooth and calm and its contagious.
 Except we cant dance lol
Im sweating so much and I only practiced my dance once. I still have the actual performance left! 
Justin  does the flipflop dance better than he does Bollywood dancing 
"  come on man turn up tomorrow, your time to dance"
"FGLD!  Fuck Genres, Let's Dance FGLD ""MAXIMONO X HUXLEY - THE CHASE (Original Mix)"" by This Ain't Bristol on "
  I was raised in a tiny town in Washington. Ephrata. About 45 minutes from Wenatchee. T 
"Listen man, I love Pat. He built this franchise to be a first class organization. With that said, I wouldnt be mad "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Strut Your Funky Stuff by Frantique on  
NP: Start To Dance -  ft   cc Da Magical  KnightPartyMix ClubOnLiveRadioWithDjKnight
Community Highlight: Kim Epifano works with students at Bessie Carmichael Elementary School in the SoMa through YCB 
  Absolute load of tosh. The film was awful. What a weak storyline. Sorry but apart from the dance 
"This theater is so beautiful!!!
I just love my job!!! dance fun showtime "
"like i cant dance, cant keep a rhythm, but i have a major desire to do drag, but i cant perform???? i also dont hav "
 Biko go on YouTube and pull videos of MJ doing a show that is better than Beychella. Bring out those rec 
Have a great time  tomorrow everyone! Have fun. Stay safe. Dance hard.
" It's the same old TV show, movie, song and dance. There is nothing fresh."
 Did you atleast go to the dance afterwards??
The Legend that is jeremyloops turned   main stage into a dance frenzy.  splashy2019 
i just KNOW yall nighas from NSU not this pressed over a dance everybody be doing 
       
"First time seeing BTS dance: Oh hey that Jimin dude's a great dancer!
After: JHope is a dance God"
cant stop thinking about that tour critic calling lisas solo interpretive dance
"   WHY are immigrants are dangerous? 

WHAT about that group of people looks the LE "
"I know if I go out, have a few soft drinks and dance to the beat small this evening it wont hurt!"
" Nah, she crushed it. You cant hate on her! She had to not only match them in dance but also deal with the "
"On April 20th, 2018, we lost a legend at the young age of 28. He rose to prominence in 2011, with his single 'Level "
   thanks so much for your time last night and watching my son Eden and daughter 
Ok. So. Picture this. Wedding day. Me and my boo. We take the floor and dance to our first song...havent picked it 
" Happy, hopeful, proud for you!! And Im doing a happy dance because youre scared and doing it anyway. You got this!"
"JAZZ COLLECTIVE  Tokyo Jazz Notesreview of ""COLLAGE""  music soul DJ dance techno house club jazz"
"""Shall we dance with some hop steps? 
Let's go ""one two"" in a small corner of this world..""-Hatsune Miku &amp; Megurine "
  wouldt be happy until one of us was given a detention or disqualified from the exam 
"Scorch has been killing it and flexing his combat scores for encampment missions. Meanwhile, Headhunter want us to DANCE."
YouTube just recommended me Donghun's Maroon5 - Sugar dance practice.... NOOO GO AWAY SATAN 
  Willie Youngs fishing pole dance used to be the only fun thing about watching the Bears
"make sure you come watch me ugly cry tonight at the MVHS Dance Show 
8$ at the door "
This song makes me want to roller skate and dance lol
 Oh I loooooooove to dance. 
"MJ really something else, nigga literally had his own unique dance style"
" ""That's not what I...""
He laughed, shaking his head slightly as she took him up on his offer. He didnt m "
"So you can have tea with Sauron while horseback riding, you must do a dance and row 10 km.."
Boutta go to vancortlandt wit a boom box and dance in the grass
" Ah, the little known chicken dance metaphor in OO python? "
solo dance shots . . . 
"  We have mental health issues, mental health issues dont HAVE US"
"Moskau - Just Dance 2014

Again! Russian song dances are great! I cannot leave this one out since I find playing as "
     There arent many programs for young girls in MS all Ive ever f 
"An Erotic Opus from Us, Masters of Eros:

We saw the A HUMAN and immediately felt that they were hot.  But were the "
"GABBER MODUS OPERANDI  Growing up in Sumatra, DJ Kasimyn &amp; Ican Harem later met in Bali where they bonded over a s "
Sign ups coming soon for my fortnite dance Zumba class tell ur friends 
" Is she doing a rain dance to get the proceedings going, oh wait she's not Native American like she claimed to be after all."
"TRACK OF THE DAY

deephouse techno deeptech melodictechno intoonmusic dancemusic dance radio radioshow dj

"
depressing seeing someone from a musical legacy with a clear natural talent like Mabel reduced to releasing generic 
Karson dance to everything lmao
  Anytime You Want To Dance... Tweet Me... I Can Be The DJ. Or We Can Take Turns Picking Songs...
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Hypnotize by The Notorious B.I.G. on  
Tonight I gonna dance for you
rock pop dance classic hits now: When by Shania Twain on  
" Wait. TLC's ""Waterfall"" or ""No Scrubs,"" maybe? I seem to recall the former's video having a dance associated with it."
Idiots! I'm so down for this it's ridiculous. CHAMPAGNE SLAM DANCE PARTY! 
TA SEXY DANCE BATTLE TO BYLO COS I LOST MY CHILL W TYM MOMENCIE SO DISRESPECTFUL ATEEZinWarsaw
"Saturday night hangout  yengna_saturday  .
Top 40s, Habesha hits, dance hall, afrobeat &amp; more  mixed by your favo "
So excited for a day full of workshops and a showcase of wonderful emerging dance artists choreography! Come along 
"It's the weekend! Time for dancing and getting down
dance dancer  dancers dancing 
dj adjsavedmylife 
music "
"Step into the weekend like:

dance dancer  dancers dancing 
dj adjsavedmylife 
music bass rhythm  beat "
 Didn't you attend one of those manosphere events and dance next to white nationalists with nazi-fla 
It was an honor to take photos at eliiasr fathers wedding! We wish the happy couple the best and hope they can keep 
"Audition for Monopoly, The Musical: Seeking 4 Male Ensemble and 6 Female Ensemble. Variety of types vocally and phy "
" Makes sense! I swiped it already, though. It does this little dance every single time I go back to the home "
 Can it just be The Safety Dance on repeat?
You only pass the 2000s kid test if you remember the sexting remix that Jeffree Star did with Blood On The Dance Fl 
two of my friends are making out in my bedroom while me and the other girls dance to whitney houston
 Lead the way darling as we dance a little before sneaking out
"The masks are off when the Upper Teams brave The Cut 

music musicvideo world of dance dancing nbc "
I want San to yeet me the way he yeeted his hat in the Hala Hala dance practice
 tonight i'm gonna dance for yoooou
"THATS MY BOOOOYYYYY FABI!!! Bless us with all this beautiful hard dance music  we love you  

"
"Na only Zanku the whole of Nigeria dey dance. This time last year, it was Shaku."
" lets drink medalla, chinchorrear for a week,relax in vieques and dance at la plazita all night. "
 Got a Special Celebration coming up?.. Want to hire a hall and DJ?.. Click on our Website Link and Check 
  this is why we dance at parties
"Now that bills are out of the way, I can finally pay off the rest of my vive &amp; FBT that  is selling for "
Now our KIMSEOKJIN is dancing in the front smiling....and his dance moves? Oh come on... IT'S DAEBAK! Nothing can 
"This is what happens to me when Janet Jackson plays at a dance club.

 "
"I am sick of these losers who dance for beating ONLY ONE boss in Verdant Forest. There are 5 bosses, guys. Youve o "
  I like the dance it's cool tweet back
dance with you - beyonc  cvprom2019
  dance azonto again 
"We're thrilled to announce ""Make the Record Skip, Vol. 2"" from our friend  is now available on  "
When you hear your favourite song and you can feel a dance coming on  TheJawaaniSong out today! SOTY2 
Now this bitch wanna dance 
Shalamar - Make That Move (Live on Dance Fever)  via 
My brother is wearing his 11s to his spring dance dude is tryna impress the hoes I guess
Seems this Zanku dance has different stages.... Even Zlatan never reach this stage. 
" Goodness. Now, it's time for the floss. (Does the floss dance)"
 If you dont put Con Altura by  on the next just dance I cant play the game anymore
"Everytime I listen to i'm so sick by apink I imagine eunkwang doing the dance on idol radio,, he loved it too much :((( I miss him"
i want to post a dance cover but idk how tocover my face ;/ should i wear a pikachu mask i wore for halloween
    Haha away ye go. Thats teenie bopper pretendy dance music And I 
dance dance on the radio 
"Battle: Proving I can triumph over the enemy, over his secrets, his strengths and weak points, learn his moves and "
  we all know where to do this dance 
"Dear Mr. DJ, I dont think any of us needed the dance remix of Midnight Rider. Ever. Pleasestopnow"
please invite me to third-wheel your sunset vineyard wedding so I can see your very best dance moves  gonna eat ve 
My friends dont understand that Im really going to sneak away and take a few dance classes while we are in Miami ....
"I know that these thee things are not related. yet, it makes me feel so strange. "
"Original 90's Dance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud "
"Mood. On some Friday feel good shit. 

offset doanythingforclout dance weirdos thebeautyinfluencer lit "
happy birthday emiler!!!! soo glad i get to dance with you &amp; i hope youre having a wonderful day:)) lots of love 
o break dance que a ariana faz em be alright na dwt: TUDO
This man performed the traditional Haka dance to honor victims of the New Zealand terror attack (link: 
"Babes - Were teaching Tonight 5pm, Tomorrow 10am and Sunday 12noon  Beverly Hills!!! Come DANCE and WORKOU "
i just know seulgi knows the dance beyonce dances with all her diva remixes
Girls at festivals whos sole purpose is to dance and take it all in and dont mind if their makeup is smeared or i 
I'm sure you'll think this is ludicrous. KEEP CALM AND DANCE FOREVER comedy lol smile humorous 
"ros taking selfies, recognizing blinks, listening for information to watch a dance cover, and complimenting someon "
Now Playing: Kano - Dance School | 80s disco funk radio nowplaying  |  [[[[[   TUNE IN: 
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB I Love Music by The O'Jays on  
"While everyone is busy thinking about the cb 
Im here still wondering when they will release Flower dance practice "
"We are dancing into the weekend!  How are you feeling?
.
.
.
Dance Seniors Dad Silly Fun Dancing SanDiego "
Dai Kelly ironing the 18th green to a polonaise dance  . walesgolf GolfWales 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby This Is Love [Radio Edit] by  Feat. Eva Simons 
  I challenged her to a dance off once after I finished a phone interview with Camren. Now 
"This is for the wanderers
Who smell like honeysuckle and cinders 
And wake for the sunrise 
Those who dance beneath "
   SDNY finding money laundering evidence would help tremendously. GOP can dan 
The gods of sex and dance mated and Katrina Kaif was born 
most wakaan music i dont know how to dance to other than dropping my ass to tha floor and twerking
"   Why don't you just change ""families"" to ""human beings""- that's how you really feel."
Dance music 
If you didnt register yesterday for the dance marathon you can do the promo code: pthonpush30 For 30% off (so $7) 
sitting at my desk listening to Like A Girl and tryin not to get up and dance W O W OMG
 She can also dance! 
20 YEARS AGO: Tracksters place first:  Students recognized for reading: 
" Elbow : one day like this 
Also will be my 1st dance song at my wedding! "
"Rasputin - Just Dance 3

I always found Soviet Union era Russia dances pretty funny, this dance can be considered r "
 dance with me you coward
today at work we put in a Shania Twain CD &amp; danced with all the little babies &amp; now I cant wait for the day I can 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Hypnotize by The Notorious B.I.G. on  
" So can you please make more Videos on YouTube,  so like dance covers , reaction , lives , Q&amp;A , fun ,"
"Tonight, I'm posting New Dance Videos from the Studio today....



Photo by:  "
"What's your energy signature? Dance and discover yours Saturday at 9:30 a.m. in Nia with Yvonne! A fun, fun, fun playlist awaits!"
"Come and see  Maria KAIF 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance girl   
 "
"   There's women with kids- that is a family. 
So you see a group of people being h "
Homecoming made me realize how lazy I was. I knew most of the routine and I was dancing on my bed instead of me to get up and dance proper
 Those are needed tho so relish in that evening to the fullest ps don't forget to dance 
"Maybe KQ had to let San dance to Blood Sweat Tears, MAYBE he wouldnt snap like this "
Please kindly to check out my new dance cover BLACKPINK -  AS IF IT'S YOUR LAST thank you!    ROSE
"Original  Pop Song 80's Electric Pop Remix Enjoy!

Youtube


Soundcloud "
"*NSYNC - It's Gonna Be Me (Official Video)  via  Right Now Y'all It's Official, Thi "
"Things not even remotely near my top thousand concerns in the world at the moment nos 55-57.
55. Megan Markle shutt "
Michael Jackson - Blood On The Dance Floor
"Vou escolher mais de 1 por dcada porque sim 

70s: The Dark Side of the Moon, Aladdin Sane
80s: Like a Prayer "
"I just released my first ever track 
""Getting Started"" (Voices)


Tell me what you think

Dance EDM"
 Where have I heard this song and dance before..? 
"Making me dance-walk around the house with a wiggle  all I need is to swap my car for an Aston Martin
 Sexymusic "
 I am gratified to know that I can at least dance as well as a Moclan.
Turns out Im really good at Just Dance. Idk Im just full of so many great qualities.
 Gurl why wasn't Travis in it? His dance moves get me shook 
Please keep retweeting huddersfield huddersfieldis childhood Dance 
"Dance! Party is tonight
Sing with us &amp; Dance with us
Hey Girl!! Why Not Party Like a Bitch!?"
Now playing Bosaxi (Goga G Slow Dance Edit) by Jose Padilla!
" well, most of the time im happy and cheerful but when im working on something im so serious and am "
GOAT to that Dance shit. Breezy baby! 
I wanna dance with somebody who loves me &lt;3
"Ladies, Cash app your man 300 to get a lap dance from his fave stripper this weekend"
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np MBG - Feel Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. Manchester  
just 2 more weeks!!  I can't fuckin wait to dance my ass off  those b2b are gonna be  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Mary Go Wild
 - Grooveyard
 "
"INSTAGRAM TAKEOVER ALERT!

Meet our newest instructor Sam Allen who will be taking over our Instagram tomorrow! Fol "
"The 1 Latin Dance Party in Astoria is @ FusionLoungeNY
InternationalSaturdays
Latin Beats by NYCs 1 DJ Rotation "
how I dance 
" "" I'll stay in sight""

Nods as she  chuckles backed off to the dance floor joining in with the dancing "
 Can we just drink sprite at the next dance night lol
"o meu top 5 do social cues
 smoke
2.ready to let go
 dance "
I Sit in Darkness as the Shadows dance in my head.
 Don't you have anything better to do than harass President Trump with BS we all know who was behind the ob 
Fancy free felines dance and sing...at the Jellicle Ball. Join the fun  now through Sunday! 
14. Dance like both Joel Goodsen and Les Grossman
"That one classmate can dance ig? She said she's been singing ect idk if she rlly can tho , and she's more a bgs s "
"Dance For You, Rocket, and 6 inch are really those girls! "
  We call that dance The Complicit 
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Give It Up by Public Enemy on  
"Remember that ""I can be sexy too"" challenge in weekly idol and Seongwu go for it? Look at Daniel that whipped over "
" We dont get any minutes free in Memphis, so Id be doing a happy dance over three minutes. "
"The one with the hilarious dance looks like my Uncle Brian, who was a cabaret artiste  totp"
"Australian electronic hip hop production duo Hermitude is back with ""Every Day"" featuring Hoodlem! "
    You have not answered my question. Why are you dodging and 
"  They're doing ice dance.  But yeah, we do have a shortage of pair girls. Maybe Lubov and Charl "
" LDH groups are not really ""idol groups""
but Ballistik Boyz from Exile Tribe wants to say Hi to this p "
" Not to mention a connection with the body, the world at large, music, dance, emotion, all of which s "
"[TRANS] Gikwang's V LIVE  

""I'll go and come back healthily to show you an even better appearance, better son "
"1.20 - CORK - ROYAL COURT - EWAY 

1.55 - CORK - ISOTOPE - EWAY 

2.30 - CORK - GEOLOGICAL - EWAY 

4. "
This is what I look like playing just dance 
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Keep Up by KSI on  
Lots of fine dance moves from  students in this.  Check it out! WeareArtsandSciences 
   Oh- I KNOW women traffic children. DonaldTrump took a picture with one who runs 
  Waiting for the extended dance mix...
"*NSYNC - It's Gonna Be Me  via 
good dance older boy group and 90s years I like it"
"Ad Sponsored ""The Legacy of Chicago Dance"" draws on the  archives to waltz through 100+ years of "
Challenging  to a dance competition this weekend
" Hate this dance!

Go Leafs!"
 Winter dance
"20 wins, a berth in the Big Dance and two All-Americans means a nomination for the  CowboyChoice Women "
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
" watched kalank 2dy despite reading some negative reviews. Must say it was worth the watch, yr perform "
Mystery as some residents hearing dance classics blaring across West Dublin  i could hear mu 
 Are they dance fighting? In your voice
I Want You In My Soul (Petko Turner Edit)  Boogie Dance Funk Masterpiece Free DL sur SoundCloud np 
Join our community this evening at  basement for an all night postpunk goth synth alternative da 
 also house dance... so fucking gay ... the origin is literally gay clubs where all kinds of queer dan 
They should have a jigg bar. You go there to chill and vibe but most importantly to jigg on the dance floor.
" OH I almost forgot, if you're like ""this is great but i just want to see the choreo"" just search ""bts "
Footloose Final Dance 1984 to 2011  via 
Crystal Waters - 100% Pure Love  via  Let's Keep This Classic Style Dance Party Goi 
Last chance to see Dance Show TONIGHT 7:00pm in the Katella Theatre! @ Katella High School 
Bohannon - Let's Start A Dance ( Special Larry Levan Remix ) 2
" As the song goes that's 10 cents per dance. 

Seems appalling, I am counting down and face to face "
 Just dance?
    But can she do a fire dance like her Cherokee ancestors.
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Mi Flor by Monguito on  
" We should judge candidates according to the schedule you ordain?
I've seen this dance before, and I am not a fan."
  i wanna dance like Jaila when i grow up.
"Tonight!
UNDERWORLD at Saint Vitus Bar

Free Dance Event

    DJs
  Sean Templar
  Tracy Thomas
  Matt V Christ "
Outside this studio to buy recital tickets for my Stinkys first recital  and with dance school I danced with.
Can you dance to my beat?
"Spring (La primavera) by Giacomo Balla

Spring Dance by Arthur Mathews

More information in embedded links at "
   Ive got way lamer dance moves.
I can't wait. Elton John has been my favorite forever! My son chose Your Song for us to dance to at his wedding. Hi 
" No dancing ever, not for protests.
You may need to arrest your dance partners.
Job done, matter resolved."
omg how can i forget that ateez also covered block b during the dance covers JsksksksksjJ
"prom

favorite male: trent 
favorite female: angie
favorite pairing: emma and alyssa duh
least favorite character: "
Whew yall. This dance gone be alright after all lol
" Firstly, this is not a popularity contest. It is about quality. If you're going to say MJ was a better p "
If you never done the line dance to swerve dont tell me how the shits look
"fbf
When your mama is organizing photos and sends you a pic from back in the day. 

benddontbreak bsfa "
 This is another song/dance (Good Morning) from same movie. My favorite part is at the end. 
"people always ask me why i listen to spanish music, because bitch it makes me happy, &amp; makes me wanna dance."
"Jam packed with a diverse array of Latin food, music, dance, and workshops for the family to enjoy an amazing learn "
 Nahh not at all.. I'm telling you I'm not steplimg to you again.. So go ahead and dance in that pride
 it's hard to focus on the dance
"TRF / EZ DO DANCE  via 
Happy weekend!
TRF  EZDODANCE  "
Now Playing: Milky Chance - Stolen Dance 
All of us at the middle school dance back in 07 
 Ive been chased down the street by a turkey defending its chicks.  It was really aggressive.  Im a bi 
  Charles Tannock is a Tory Remain MEP and has been very impressive so perhaps we should a 
I will always beat myself up over the fact my friend introduced me to BTS in 2013 but after watching we are bullet 
   Look at the videos. They are sitting down looking at the ground while some assho 
The dance scene with Mateo and Xo 
Dionysus - Jins voice sounded good and all there voices sounded gooood hehe I love the dance in the chorus its in 
 Maybe she can consult with her tribe. Maybe a little war dance. Hypocrisy
rock pop dance classic hits now: Dance On A Volcano by Genesis on  
Tune in to THE DJ ROBB-O SHOW  on  tonight @ 7pm NY time!  deephouse dj housemusic music 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np High Times by Jamiroquai on  
   Amazing dancer big fan miss you in world of dance you were amazing aydin :-) :-) :-) :-) 
" I do and the genres vary, depending on my mood. For work that requires deep focus, I usually listen "
You should dance naked around a remarkably humongous intense art trike
XMenDarkPhoenix ft. The fusion dance 
 From managing Classenal to teaching kids in ghettos the art of Wengerball through the use of interpretive dance 
 You obviously never tried to dance and sing at the same time. I  would like to see you do better
 My happy dance 
" Okay!  Girl, I wish I looked like that post-baby. As for HBCUs, although they were born from adversity ( "
" Kwon Eunbi  I fell for her the first time she went on PD48, her dance captured my heart and since "
   Even this dance haha! Happy Easter.  
Excited to feature a track from  brand new EP today on release date. Give a warm welcome to the super 
Imagine how beautiful would be to have Halsey in the dance practice for Boy With Luv 
       Ah.  Then nope!  Lol
Digital Underground - Humpty Dance (Official Music Video) 
 I'm feeling proud and wanna dance too 
"[ATTENTION]
Please go streaming official dance video on Treasure13 youtube channel
Lets reach 1 M views before debu "
Dance party is on   Cochella 
Daemonia Nymphe - Bacchic Dance of The Nymphs Full Album 
so i had a DEEP ass convo w my dance teacher before i left the studio and honestly idk how to feel about this weird thing called life
  Positive New dance hall king plus ataa papa massively Impact .... Bless Lion .. u the Best 
  Huh Jin does come up with the best dance moves
"New trending GIF tagged dance, happy, reaction, smile, friday, weekend, smiling, bunny, jumping, bounce, easter, tg "
"Gala and Dance Party, One week away...Saturday, April 27. Tickets available  "
is Beyonce creating a new line dance for cookout season?!!!
 Its not even their original to begin with. Still a quality little dance floor bop though.
 Ill pay you gold to dance on a mailbox for you.
"Just the singing, I can't dance to save my life "
Its like I just get into a song and then all of a sudden we have a 1 minute dance break.... with no singing. Shes 
"Diddy, Kim and Mary all do that New York Dance lol"
"Things that I have lost sleep over since watching Homecoming 
- Beyonc's work ethic
- The meaning of the show
- T "
 Maam i went to college in Alabama i know the line dance when i see it .. Ive also done it 10000 times . 
    They don't owe any of you any kind of proof whatsoever.
"LUNIZ -- I GOT 5 ON IT  via  This Is Classic Right Here Baby, I Love This Song... L "
after we dance QueremosKallys3
This was such a happy sad film.  Totally loved the concept though  facial  and dance expressions were 
 loving the dance version of someone  you love with my bffs   and   
  Your bitch ass hoes cant even dance stfu
It seems Ive been invited to a ball this evening would you like to accompany me? Id love to dance with you.
"Tha Tru definition of A Bad BitchShe usual speaks6 languages,Writers,That sings,Act,dance,rap. Stays well groomed. "
What this weeks Apple-Qualcomm-Intel dance means for the future of 5G 
Congratulations to PACT senior Laura Siegel who made the University of Minnesota Dance Team for 2019-2020! Way to g 
        
"   Do you see ANY of those people with drugs? NO. 

They have a legal right to come "
Girls at kcon doing random kpop dance be like:  
 as someone who has tried this dance move if you put too much of your weight forward you tip like the titan 
Brooks...no why do I need to dance when the most scintillating things on me are my brain and smart ass mouth 
  Tom is a cute boy and he knows how to dance so the strokes would be spectacular
Like by now  catalyze me make I dey do like I dey dance but the foolish boy is chasing money.
    the police are not your friend. They are the state arm apparatus. St 
[PO] TIFFANY 1ST MINI ALBUM I JUST WANNA DANCE NO POSTER IDR 220K. WANNA? CHECK OUR BIO :) SNSD GirlsGeneration 
Good to be back at one of Houstons coolest beer joints! Come out early for the dance contest and then catch 
 sing &amp; play guitar but I guess thats your job lmao...so try painting? horse riding? cooking/baking? dance classes?
Parkinson's Therapy: Dance Rehearsal to YouTube Music Videos   wellness
"  Is Ogoni land clean? After paying pension he sent ""python dance"" to kill, maim and rape their children."
 Its called a Hulk and I got it in a medium *happy dance*
i been watching older girl group dance practices for the past hour and girl groups just dont do it like they used to tbh
" Song list for the reception? First dance song suggestions/chart the vote? 
Love the advice suggestion!"
I need a dance partner smh
"[Update]  Enough Dance Practice Fix ver. stats:

Views: 108K   110K
Likes: 9.8K  9.9K

 Targets: "
"the other night, i asked Cass to help me get my bags out of my car... we go outside, we talk and out of nowhere, we "
TONIGHT (and every Friday): If you're 21+ show this ad at  for NO COVER from 5-8pm! FREE dance less 
 Oh wow  not kool lets dance around a fire  and burn the Koran
"Maybe it.s better this way 
We.d hurt each with the things we.d want to say 
We could have been so good together 
W "
"  The goddess of dance Kim Chung ha, recommend listening to the song Gotta Go/Already Midnight."
"   Agree 100%,,, I would have been out on that dance floor too"
"Dance to your own music. 

"" she's Fresh"""
   Lol at you ! Have you ever seen  dance? I'm sure you haven't until s 
 My husband and I own and Run a music festival in Nova Scotia Canada! Cant wait to dance the summer away
"repost from  


To create something exceptional, your mindset must be relentlessly focused on the "
Yunho and Mingi BTS Idol dance cover [ATEEZ]  via 
"Shadow Dance
.
.
.
.
midday contrast Tree shadow sunlight flicker movement "
" When you run a non-profit, the focus should be on the non-profit NOT the guy who started it.

I do "
" Brennan, early start Israeli and Your Turn hands free Amazon nets flix rice cash 

Everyone was supp "
 Dance like nobodys watching
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Kids in Love &amp;40;Don Diablo Remix&amp;41;
 - Kygo
 "
"Sexy Burlesque Dancer Dew Lilly at The Circus themed show flashbackfriday boylesque 
fashion art photography "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Mamma Mia by ABBA on  
the Pokemon theme song is a Swing dance 
Minsung will do dance workshops in Brasil! ^^ 
 I actually get a kick out of that subversive stuff pagans having their feasts &amp; traditions knicked and 
"  Alors non

Because im so white I cant dance I swear mais pour le reste oui "
" Ill be Ur knight of the rusted armor, save me oh Lord Cobi...
 yes mella cause mella ITS maaaaaney! Lol ""dance break"" included"
" TBH, that looks like a crack dance...it's more like this... "
I love this. So many people ran to dance. Ive been told that Im the opposite of this song. Sorry  
"Two boyfriends, three jobs, you're like, nothing can replace Brad. Then Liberty Mutual calls and you break into your happy dance."
Only person on the dance floor actual goals we love 
Bebe Rexha - Meant to Be (feat. Florida Georgia Line) [Official Music Vi...  via  L 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np DreamFrequency - Feel So Real Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. 
Lee Ann Womack - I Hope You Dance      
Now playing Now I Know What Made Otis Blue by Paul Young music best hits rock pop dance on  
 Would you rather dance with Fred Astaire or act with Meryl Streep?
"Virginia bride-to-be cancels engagement shoot, opts for first dance photos with dying father "
Hope you got to line dance  
These dude bros posting coordinated dance videos of someone's mehndi on my instagram with the most awkward cinemato 
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Angel Of Harlem by U2 on  
According to ray Im too stupid to appreciate a horse dance routine
 I just love the groove and the happy feeling it gives me. Although it was released in 2004 for some r 
can i have this dance
" All your drinks are on me tonight.""
He smiled, his gaze falling to her sashaying hips then back up again "
 how long did you rehearse your dance in Little or is that just how you do bc  I just gotta know something 
 This bloody country is too pink n fluffy! Get a grip  this is embarrassing us all.
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Touch Me by Martin Solveig on  
" Was this scene from Timber by any chance a Cats Dont Dance reference, or am I just looking too deep int "
" I dont know Billie, I havent done that dance since my wife died - beginning of my strange addiction, - Michael"
Everyone in the cinema looked at me when I got up to dance and sing to Desi Girl 
  You make me do my Happy Dance !!!!
Listen to the Mozart score from this May's dance work Tryst on our Spotify channel:   
"So after all that dance, Beyonce didnt miss a beat or go off key and some people will open mouth and say shes ove "
I guess Wiz gets more than One Dance 
Dance for you will never get old to me 
We used to dance like that in our apartment. He could not stop touching me.  
any songs recommendations?? I want to listen to more dance music as I already feel summer in the air
If Warren could do a rain dance and it worked i might consider voting for her
 The Vegeta fight was gas I won't lie but just Goku taking off his coat and doing that dance shit in the wa 
International investors dance to the tune of Jamaicas reggae-loving central bankers 
 omg the duality....the range... every other ice dance team wants what vm have
"I just hate how many articles you can find talking about idols bodies and visuals, but you can barely find any talk "
"If im trying to dance dionysus,  im sure that will be the end of my life

THATS SO COOL AND- HOW CAN YOU DO THAT??? "
" Noisy, clubby pop/hip-hop, traditional korean folk instrumentation and dance, about self esteem and r "
 One of my favorite dance pop records ever!!!
"Learn easy dance moves for any occasion Instead of learning complicated routines, you will learn ""simple"" and ""natu "
Digital Underground - Humpty Dance (Official Music Video)  via 
 Nah.  You need to dance
"And Im sure Asher is catching hell in Colombia and Brazil but thru all the bullshit, our people still dance and en "
The Prodigy - No Good (Start The Dance) (Original Mix) is NowPlaying on 
"Add a bow to your hair-do! Put it with a ponytail, a braid, a bun, and so much more! Follow the link to shop our HU "
" oh sure !! 
i'll give one for every 'sub unit'
nct dream - we go up || miracle (watch the dance prac. i "
 I wonder if the Indians have an impeachment dance she can preform on their behalf.
Wow what a amazing show RememberingTheMovies one of the best dance shows Ive seen!! Thank you for bring it to Bou 
Montgomery County students aim to curb bullying through dance 
 There you go Sarge. Dance away.  
Katy Perry - Chained To The Rhythm (Official) ft. Skip Marley  via  Right Now Y'all 
"anabell told me she was gonna do a dance cover of miroh  and i cant wait for it! ALSO, she told she was still edit "
Cut away your safety net and find out what is like to live acrobatics dance show fitness 
i didnt know steph ran a dance cover account  
" Oh I won't just listen to it, I'll listen to it, dance to it, sing along to it, and play it in the car to annoy my mom"
The lengha i bought for my cousins wedding weights a good 8 pounds. I dont think Ill be able to dance in it
SaturdayStilettos! My goals this year were to learn a back handspring in high heels and dance like beyonce... this 
Kennedy Dance Theatre is CLOSED today Friday April 19 and Saturday April 20 in honor of the Easter holiday!
shall we dance by block b slaps im sad im just finding it but ty spotify recs
This the hardest animated dance ever lol no cap 
hello. i am opening up for my boy  on CINCO DE MAYO!! you can buy tickets online with the link down below 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock We Can Go to Your House by Maurice Massiah on  
as a kid i would sometimes  dance in my pjs or underwear with a hairbrush. one time my brother walk in and laugh lo 
"What I think I look like when I hit the dance floor at a wedding after a few drinks. But in reality, Im sure its "
 Yeah he cant dance but I was reading some of the comments and theyre saying tops shouldnt dance 
Beyonc allowing us to have the Diva mix she dances to is a mistake. Im learning that dance and Im coming yall!
Im throwing down TONIGHT at hellostrangerbar! You know how when u have so much emotions and pressure and need a wa 
"What do you know? How many musicians and cultures have she influenced? Even in her genre, what great impact have sh "
rock pop dance classic hits now: Love Don't Love You by En Vogue on  
" Squall found himself not being able to take his eyes off of her, the crowd of revelers not having the ap "
" I don't know who would buy that cheap shit.

And how is he allowed to sell things with Trumps face "
"where puppets and a giant skull dance, jump, run, sing, shout and laugh"
  Totally agree. I think after his back injury he was in pretty much constant pain due t 
   Copping tickets for both of us for Dance
 ^^^^When all you have left is to spin a new narrative. Your sensationalism knew no bounds. Your misleadin 
"  I wanna dance with somebody 
"
Congratulations Caroline on making the West Fargo Varsity Packatahna dance team! What a great way to start your hig 
She hit that Mary J Blige dance  
  Fun to dance too though !
"Whatever style of Latin Dance you love, search in Torino, Italy for somewhere to dance. dance salsa"
 You'd think I'd requested the dance mix of Ace of Spades. crankto11
 like i used to read comments during the idol era looking for kookies comments but there was not alot 
"""Life is like dancing. If we have a big floor, many people will dance. Some will get angry when the rhythm changes. "
    This pretty much says it all. SMH 
  If theres a dance practice for this where we can completely focus on the choreograph 
 Our youngest walked in on adult time to show us her dance. She never even noticed. Just danced and walked out.
 Heather Whitney music now playing on  from the Album: Movin' On (Singles) - Track3: ''S 
"Come and see SHABNAM's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: girl dance  
 "
 Hopefully it's Aldis but Marty beat's him for the title at NWA and it becomes a three way dance.
remember when naya said that her and heather used to dance in their underwear
Were ready to drop bombs on Bombs away night! Get your $3 Bombs shots and dance the night away to your favorite ba 
"Happy Dance Friday!!  Just  closed on this beauty  4bd/2b pool home in Yucaipa, CA 

escrowclosed "
This is literally Kurdish dance  
imagine thinking yoongi isn't part of the dance line 
"*starts aggressively doing fortnite dance* 
How do you not know Im sad? I make it very apparent. Uwu"
Let's go baby and dance now Level Up [Blame Radio Edit] by Sway Feat. Kelsey on 
 Hobi! For that balenciaga and them beautiful a fluid dance moves that I dont have
 But Diego is very handsome and has dance moves. 10/10 would hit.
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Stars On 45 by Stars On 45 on  
"Presenting, Wave 33 from Team Jamal! Very cute dance no. Welcome to our Purple Family &amp; Thank you guys! We love you "
Fair To Midland - Dance Of The Manatee 
"Me: I don't dance.

Me when K-pop starts to play: "
excuse me why am I just seeing this and also why wasn't this the official music video instead of that annoying danc 
Micheal Jackson remained one of the reasons why I still twist my own bone. Like I wanna break dance 
  I've literally just woken from a nap and seen this. I thought I was tripping at first 
"Ive got these lit fucking dance moves for 6 months now, I need to perform. ASAP"
       
 If its a random just dance party im coming and beating everyone. Im a champ
Going to Hell for this but Jesus Rose from the dead so  could be the cute ball of pink fluff to danc 
" While vulgar, I really don't see why such a song and dance is being made about this"
learning the dance for you choreography is top on my bucket list before i die
"do ya dance,  do ya dance!"
 shut up and dance - walk the moon
"&gt; quick extras 
&gt;&gt; ahn hyejin - singer under the same management as yoongi
&gt;&gt; jung wheein - hyejins best friend
&gt;&gt; "
"Close your eyes and give me your hand, darling.. Let's dance"
   Surprise you can't dance out your way to power and implement policies by just dan 
 Good! I need a right good dance like 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np BizzareInc - Playing With Knives Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
No way has me fatha just had a dance off with some lush chick in the croon
Come and dance It's super cool dance heat We're grooving to the beat Come and dance We're gonna shake it down We're reachin' for the crown
None of the girls Ive talked to in my nearly 23 years on this planet knew how to dance. Not saying Im Chris Brown or anything but still ..
" Go dance in it, Tammy!  "
"This is the official Texasboogie dance tutorial  hit that hoe with ya friends , family whoever . Lets make this "
LONDON CANT HANDLE CALI/OAKLAND DANCE MOVES YALL!!!!
"dance the night away
EuIndicoAMiseAsiamore "
"
Artist: Da$ch
Single: What's A Party
Album: Aries
Label: CHCE Enterprises
Release date: 4/1/19
Link in bi "
 you look like you just got chaperoned to a school dance
 How do they make Just Dance work? Huh
Now playing I'll Be Good To You by Quincy Jones music best hits rock pop dance on  
" - Krippler - Dance  Of The King is now playing on MPG Radios.. 
Metal Revolution - "
 Can you please fix the world of dance episodes and power? Thank you 
"Best rock pop dance music Now John, I'm Only Dancing by David Bowie on  "
" What's it like to let a party own you and use you, making you dance and spew propaganda? What's it "
" Oh! I can link you a few of my favourites. A big part of kpop is the visual element, like the videos, "
 And I am prepared to bust out my told-you-so dance on them 
Dance major Alana Koch performs a solo choreographed by Gabrielle Cahill CMesaUShowcase 
"NowPlaying
 Alison Lorraine - Hey Waitress hits Pop Dance Club   "
 here's a throwback just for you and  
Dead Can Dance &amp; Lisa Gerrard - The Host Of Seraphim (ENiGMA Dubz Remix)  dubstep reddit
"I promise you sweatheart,you could take all the drugs in the world,kiss all the sexy girls youll meet,dance to the "
Next show Saturday  5/04 Mark your calendars... Who got dance music?? 
Do you dance?  No 
Mellow Mood - Dance inna Babylon 
"Great to discover that my son can dance. 
I think it was a joyous discovery for him too. 
When the Northern tunes a "
Ready to dance the night away with my people at church 
And then we shall all dance around the totem pole as dividends decline. 
I need a Beyonc and Chris Brown concert/dance battle/performance shit something...that would be something to see!!!!
 Lmao I cant dance either haha! I dont have booty lol
"Working groups for ReImagineFE19 and lots more including provocateurs, a soundscape and something special on "
    Ok Hear me out. *Radiant Dance Machines*
Who would have thought living in an Assisted Living facility meant dance party? These residents are having fun and 
"American Evolution is honored to partner with  this year as they celebrate their 50th anniversary! 

Join "
How tf she remember all them dance steps  BeyonceHomcoming 
"Repost ballet_classical
     
Featuring graceful marianelanunezofficial as Odette  repost from "
I need something to dance...Soooo...why not? 
Girls Gymnastics Ballet Dress Kids Leotard Tutu Skirt Dance Ballerina Costume -  - Add your 
" - Krippler - Dance  Of The King is now playing on MPG Radios.. 
Metal Revolution - "
"""A Chorus Line"" never grows old, and Porchlight's production sparkles

  "
DANCE IN TRANSIT is thrilled to announce that we will be in the beautiful Jim Deva Plaza on July 5th and August 30t 
"A desperate widow, a lying father, and a labyrinth of a mansion.  Check out the historicalfiction WHERE DEMONS DAN "
How can we encourage male dancers to keep up with dancing? Boys give up on their dance training at much higher rat 
"Prom isn't just for high school seniors! The 'Prom...for Mature Adults!' is an evening of music, light food, and al "
"You can license ""Sundowners"" for your next project here -  royaltyfreemusic stockmusic "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Lizzo's Boys 
 u gon dance and everything
"Ome of the landscaping guys from the homeowners association is working around outside and FLAWLESSLY whistling ""My "
"US Dance Chart on iTunes:

2.  &amp;  - Carry On *NEW PEAK* "
" Eddies in trouble, now's the time to take   for a few Bob. Joshua's US debut and no dan "
    ahhh das me and yes i dance
Missin home parties like this in cali. Particularly in san diego. Daming pinoy don btw. I think this is better than 
Birch what????? My fav FF??? Also Minet loving it FFX????? I need to see you do a mfing sending dance ???? 
Becky Carey is going viral for swapping her engagement photoshoot for one with her dying father before his time ran 
"Ok when I finally own a house of my own, first thing I'm going to do, before unpacking, is to play HOME  and danc "
Dirty Dancing - Time of my Life (Final Dance) - High Quality HD  via 
Dont forget tomorrow is our Yoga For SAAM (Sexual Assault Awareness Month) Event! Will we see you there?  
My jewelry dont dance as much since my charm left 
how guys look standing around 301 staring at girls on the dance floor 
The legion is having the Amish do their German dance tonight at 8 if you are able and willing and god willing if your creek dont rise
"We can dance if we want to, we can leave your friends behind."
       
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Breaking The Doors
 - Michael Calfan
 "
 - im happy just to dance with you
so how does j-carats stay in one spot while in a concert???? don't y'all scream and dance because that's what i do
   Jones Day is probably doing a white dude version of the happy happy joy joy dance right. Now.
Absolutely loved  s dance routine for her performance on   &amp; her amaze performance! so inspiring 
"It was the way we always knew
That we never had the clue
That we never had the chance
Like the others in the dance"
I pray this is what I look like every time I'm on the dance floor! 
"       Portsmouth , England"
Let's go baby and dance now Just The Way You Are by Barry White on  
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Automatic by The Pointer Sisters on  
"When your auntie tells you to Do that dance, boy! Lmao! My son is nutty asf. "
  Anybody can dance like Bey its just choreography..ie her background dancers and refer 
I would like to see each team perform an elaborate dance routine after every out 
Ugh just realized I only have 5 weeks to become hot in time for campus dance so everyone knows how well Ive been doing since graduation!!!
"wanna go on a date, you gotta dance first"
I guarantee you I will know every dance move from Homecoming by next week just wait on it.
 happy dance...  
I just want to dance.
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  MARTIN SOLVEIG &amp; JAX JONES -  All Day And Night 
Ecoutez nous sur : "
 How did you get involved with dance? Ive seen that you get very emocional on sytycd and actually is so beautiful
Good vibes  2night at Stomping @ The Clissold Arms in partnership with gllbarnet.More footage 2 come 
Moonbyul had some dance breaks too and there are aspects of her performance that I havent seen full videos of. But 
   Oh YEAH! Nothing is better than a Robot Dance Party! SO much fun! 
" Look at those moves. Anyone who makes a dance comment can take a hike, this is "
I remember being young in the 90s and dreaming about going to clubs when I was older!!! Always been so inspired by 
Dear  - can you please make  an album w/ dance tracks suitable for exercising &amp; include a DVD with all of y 
 Dance mom meltdown?
Let Me Clear My Throat just came on. Made me think of the Ed Lover dance 
Ppl are calling me a gold digger cuz of a joke I made on NXT LVL this week. I just wanna state for the record: If I 
"It's not Changkyun anymore..after him it was Hyungwon bc of his memes and stuff xD

Now Shownu..I can't tell why bu "
 But don't underestimate the popularity of these very fancy clocks! 
 You know your family is LIT when you have a dance off after everyone else leaves 
" happy birthday young man! May your night have been filled with love, laughs, drinks and dance  "
"Friday fun moment: when stopped at the light at the intersection, Mom would regularly get out and dance around the "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np Awsome3 - Dont Go Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. Manchester   
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np The Gift by INXS on  
 McGahn is probably doing a happy dance.
Marked as to-read: Dance of Thieves by Mary E. Pearson 
shoutout   for adding Take Me Home to the Heavy Hitters &amp; Breaking Dance playlists 
"Bullet wound? No biggie, I can still dance, no need to go to A&amp;E."
"Now we know exactly why they always use hand mics...

Because they're too powerful if they're given the opportunity "
"Thanks so much to  for hosting Reason Is An Impasse, Reason Is Damnation  We open at "
And Freddie Mercury doesnt even dance. Lets be honest some of the people watching the homecoming performance live 
The Revealing Science of God / Dance of the Dawn by Yes. True Brit! at 5:27pm.
 Never wanted to dance by mindless self indulgence
Rita Ora British singersongwriter  
Forever wishing I could dance 
 will crab dance for $11  
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration  via 
" I LOVE TACO BELL
EAT ANOTHER TACO AND DANCE WITH ME  
"
Ass &amp; Titties twerkchallenge download Stream on all platform clicklinkinbio to listen explorepage rawinked 
working on my credit recovery project for dance so i get my hours done and project by tuesday and its just 4 more hours and 2 projects
Now I need dance lessons from  so fucking badly.  
If y'all don't dance like this with yours sisters then I'm sorry  
"I wanna dance, I wanna win.
 you are forever my dance partner. No take backs. "
J Hope teaching members to dance 
I just want someone to teach me how to dance like this  
Tomorrow 20 djs  two dance floor 
"like ooh ahh
dance the night away 
knock knock
likey
heart shaker
EuIndicoAMiseAsiamore "
Bandz a make her dance 
Watching black gay men dance is everything. /7
going to dance around my kitchen cause i can
electronica 666 - dance with the devil [paladium discoteque].mpg 
Watching Beyoncs documentary makes me wish I knew how to dance
  Just Dance 
"2019 Carnival Dancer of the Day
May 4th, 7pm, Lawrence Arts 
Deena
Photo: Deena Schaumburg 
Ticket Link: "
"Excuse me while I bust some killer dance moves in the middle of the street.

MensFashion MensWear Dapper "
"send it to your crush with no description 
crush love dance "
"time to jump into the shower and dance ... my childish gambino for the toddler bambino... 
eyeFEELlikeamazonPRIMEvi "
  Before her Be Like Me dance cover
maybe if i tried to dance or exercise or at least leave the chair more often and not once a month
   Gym Jordan ever gonna put a jacket on? This ain't your junior high dan 
 You should be very proud of this video. I loved the references to the past like Gumby and the dance m 
"for woong's position, i think he'll be dance and vocal  "
"Paying attention to the dance of an autistic man in Penn Station.

I can hear the rhythm of the crowds, and the rhy "
Currently in my apartment alone listening to get low doing the dance that  and I made back in 8th 
"Ballerina is dead, 
three days earlier, ""I thee wed,"" 
on the edge of reality, we dance, 
our deathly romance.  

amwriting poem"
    We love Thursday nights at Bass Street! My son doesnt leave the dance floor.
On set of the LetsShutUpAndDance music video.  &amp; his incredible (and sparkly ) dance team nailing down m 
Top Dance/Eletronic Song: The Middle by Zeed or Happier by Marshmello
NEW YEAR MIX 2019 | Best Trap  Dubstep  Hardstep Music | Party Dance Music Mix 2019 
"NEW ARRIVALAnother New Top Available now !! Great for Camps, nationals, conventions, photo shoots or just becau "
"B6 | 8-4

Peacocks reach on a couple of Husky errors. 

Dance party in Fayette as the Huskies are changing pitchers "
i cant stop watching LUHENYANGs dance. its THAT good
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Fuck Me Pumps by Amy Winehouse on  
"For manshoorinsta 's SoundCloud
.
.

designinspiration design collage art editorial ahmedmounir inspofinds "
 see my dance dance dancechallenge dancemoms dancing_is_life dancevideos dancemomscomic goodmorning 
"  I don't blame the police, however i blame those who control this absolute disgrace.  They "
"I'm really weird, i enjoy making beats, i head nod and dance sometimes on my chair but as soon as it is published, "
The Last Dance by   TranscendencePrompt Fiction ShortStory Perception Horror
Lucas does the Ice Cream and Cake dance! 
Seokjin's vocals in Dionysus are crystal clear and his dance moves are so powerful. I am proud of him. 
"Front desk sign in sheet, smile, talk to students, observe the dance classes, sell waters...very easy, fun and rela "
"Today we celebrate the King of Latin Music, Tito Puente! He learned to play a number of instruments as a child befo "
someone pls teach persians/tajiks on how to dance. moving ur hands in slow motion and going around each other isnt dancing
"*Finds a stick

*Pokes the nearest person.

Dance fatty."
Haryanvi dancer Sapna Choudhary rocks baraati dance with her perfect moves 
"What a great turn out. Over 30s nite. 
Bushey party drink over30s singles couples club dance events "
Gunna - 3 Headed Snake Ft Young Thug ( Dance Video)   via 
Real deal country dance music with Shane Vandiver at Lil' Reds Longhorn Saloon!  
    LAP DANCE FOR YOU LAP DANCE FOR YOU LAP DANCE FOR EVERYONE
"Imagine thisIts 1960, you and your date are about to leave the dance, but all of a sudden you hear this start to "
 - So what's the fascinating thing about Beyonce's performances? Are her dance routines more unique than MJ's?
da bankhead bounce still da hardest dance to hit da streets
We are looking for 2 different instructors....a Yoga instructor and a instructor who can teach an All Womans Twerk 
"Saying good bye to the week like this guy! (watch the whole thing) 

tgif friyay dance whydidhedoherlikethat "
Playing Linus Van Pelt in this and finding my happiness.  Thought it was only going to be a chance to sing and danc 
Me &amp;  whenever we do the slightest dance for the family  
daniel dance to this 
"Original Dance Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Music Electronic Electro
SynthPop "
" If you had a bag of crisps you could stand next to them and watch eating noisily.

If they ask you what y "
Friday night means it's time to PARTY! Come dance the night away at It's Vegas Baby and treat yourself to a drink w 
NowWatching Memories of Murder (2003). Quite possibly for a podcast episode. I couldn't possibly say. All I know i 
If she wanna dance letta dance for the money
i CANNOT believe nina just got fingered on mixo dance floor
"Original Dance Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


EDM Pop Song Dance Music "
All we wanted at this party was to do the shake it off dance for the locals and weve been ignored 8 times now!! Sh 
   Let me tell you right after my son passed all I wanted to do was dance and stay b 
"Original Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song Dance Electronic 
Electro "
"THAT dance, Jongup is trying to kill Babyz  he is such a good dancer omg "
The best cozy spot to dance late night in austintx. Featuring the sounds of  - Fridaynight &amp;  
Not easy to dance
 He said after my dance Im dead
" Mercymaker Week - Day 5: Dance 

my casual take on dancing after a long day of work! 
mercymakerweek "
sorry for all the messy emotional posts lately. I should have better coping mechanisms than yelling my pain into th 
"     Go for me, Im mid 50s, retired Sailor "
So its official Yoongi and Tae are part of the dance line after pulling that move in Dionysus. Anyone who wishes t 
Ive played this song at least 10 times today! This shit makes me want to dance uncontrollably... 
"Original Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song EDM Dance Club
Music "
the Dance Bachelor Met Written
"
Jin beautiful
Jin vocals
Jin amazing
Jin dance
Jin jamais vu
Jin dionysus
Jin legend
Jin handsome
Jin worldwide h "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Like This And Like That by Monica on  
This is how I'll dance when bills and the tax man stop rushing me every payday. 
  put your favourite loudest music on and DANCE!
I need to adopt this baby so Ladybug can have a dance buddy 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Killer/Papa Was A Rollin' Stone by George Michael on 
Uri Henry can dance while playing a violin. He's multi-talented n versatile. 
Check out Zumba Makes Me Shine Dance Sweatpants - Back to Black  S M L XL Zumba  via 
Nah you just dont dance to Dave east songs 
Shadow Dancing creative dance     PhysEd 
Ive seen videos of that Dan Rue guy visiting a sick little kid in the hospital who was a fan of his so Im sure he 
We could have lived this dance forever
   You may want to see women dance with rabbits instead? 
He is doing the mating dance. He might end up with bed with a stranger.
   This right here this STUPID comment is whats part of the problem. Come d 
"Its that vibe challenge dance-a-thon

1 winner
$100
Most Liked Dance Video
 Ends May 19th, 2019
Who wi "
"To dance to just one song with her, to have one embrace would put you on a cloud in the stratosphere. But you settl "
Old skool rules  
 Rap dance line
" you made me cry, laugh and dance tonight and I'm pretty much speechless right now but thank you so muc "
 Girl you drunk again.... people in my village still dont know who Beyonc is but they still dance and v 
Baby I dance more than you know
 Bewitched by blood on the dance floor
New dance craze sweeping the nation: The Running Manny 
Download music mp3: Jay Trigga x Dremo  Make Em Dance(Remix)  
Is it normal for my boyfriend to fortnite dance after sex
John Macdonald - Miniature Period Dance.  4/3
 She's scared of that psycho Lars Sullivan who's having nasty sexual thoughts on her after attacking he 
his dance skills have improved a crazy amount just loOK  
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
The close family dance off after all the guests leave at someones Jago is undefeated  
Step Up All In Final Dance LMNTRIX 
But a battle? A simple room with simple obstacles and simple rules: Survive. Kill your enemy. Then the door will op 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Let Me Live
 - Rudimental &amp; Major Lazer Ft. Anne-Marie &amp; Mr Eazi
 "
 during the ateez concert they did a dance cover of tempo and trust me i yelled the lyrics at the top of my lungs 
"   But we are though, which is why you Rkellyfand are in your feelings. Your c "
DJ Soda Remix 2019 Nonstop Dance Party Music Mix Best EDM Club Music Remix 20192 
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing No Son Of Mine by Genesis on  
 What do you mean? Lol
 I cant dance for shit tho lol
  So they shouldnt dance with protesters or shove them. Thanks for your help Sky News 
Do you wanna dance with me?. 
"top 5 dance practice do Twice  1 loa
2 what is love
3 jelly jelly
4 dtna
5 cheer up "
"Too funny! Have a great weekend, Rioters!

Credit: William Boyd (via Facebook)

breakfastclub utah slc 801 "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np 2Funky2 - Brothers &amp; Sisters Dance Soul   HipHop &amp; more. 
 Wanna dance with the devil you deserve what you get
 All the hard work at roam dance and school as paid off well done hun
 just dance man lmao
girls do one dubsmash and all of a sudden think they can dance
"  For Miyeon: do you ever thought about making music composing things? 
For Soojin: do you want "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino I'm Ready by Bryan Adams on  
 It was right before a dance recital too XD
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Radioactive by Rita Ora on  
The bro  never disappoints even when he at 20% straight    Konkrete dance worldofdance krump 
"One year after Aviciis passing, the void in dance music remains  "
HER LIL DANCE AT THE END THO
sweaty.... why arent u using your hips  pleaseeeeee atleats TRY 2 learn the dance  
Good vibes  tonight at Stomping @ The Clissold Arms in partnership with gllbarnet.More footage to com 
"Let's Salsa Greeting, Note Card, Party Invitation, Date, Get T by PaperDahlsLLC  via  "
"  Btw, you're dance is AMAZING! "
"We Are the World had all the coolness of a middle school dance, and somehow Lil Dickys Earth is even more goob "
I just want to say I love and support Tim Anderson and all baseball players who want to have fun and celebrate thei 
Todays the last day to register for classes! Cant wait to dance with everyone! 
 Can u dance like this tho
 Its all so elegant. And looks so easy. And yet no one can dance like him
 The choreo was a little run down this comeback and I noticed since their dance practice...everything se 
My man really be here for all my bs sooo if I want to dance he's going to be right there behind me  
2nd last day on the slopes  huge strides being made by students in their skiing  A  disco topped off the day as s 
*Mating Dance* 
"Message an arf even To us Grannie,s .. Thanks Mabel am getting fit to your dance routine and playing the messag "
We dance and sweat and scream and shout. Black people understand the crucifixion. Dare I say we black gay people id 
"""Der Tanz Der Ratten"" (The Dance Of The Rats) by Ferdinand Van Kessel, 1690 "
"So cute, can I come dance with you? "
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
 I feel a dance off in the near future.....
Just as MJ had your love instantly thats how modern day kids gonna love MJ. You can easily flow with his songs and 
"i understand that its funny to watch people dance, but please dont be cruel to the girls who post their dance cov "
"One Of My Personal Favorites Right Here... A Vibe For Sure ! 

Enjoy Your Tripp Responsibly !!
AwakeENT Stay7 "
"her tiny dance at the end, yh id sell my soul for miss jodie comer"
 John McCain lied about his Obamacare vote then did a little happy dance on the senate floor over my qui 
"sigh I just wanna paint all day and dance all night, is a simple life I request "
"Edgy default dance hashtag

safechat2aR "
OOOH. That  dance and performance from  is getting warmed up on floor for  NCAAGym 
An Excel spreadsheet which can't dance with your hat's country when humans are allowed to marry robots
Want to do a dance to this  chrisbrown chicago chitown dance dancer dancersbelike plussizedancer  
War dance
People say Dianne was too bossy in the in the pan vid. What did people expect? She is a pro dancer so she is compet 
Pisces quoque nervorum distentione consumitur...  my version of Latin dance. 
"Check out ""Comedy Dance Party""  via "
 Amazing voice I was waiting for more.bahaha those dance moves tho and twerking at the end.
"It is amazing that the desire for fame and fortune can make men forget to dance with the lady that brought them.
Ca "
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
Now playing Y Dicen by Ray Barretto music best hits rock pop dance on  
ima get in that pussy and dance in it
live I'm Not Alone (CamelPhat Remix) by Calvin Harris music  radio onair dance
They used the Alchemy too first vaporize and then resynthesize his childhood into a lifelong profitable music &amp; dan 
" Wish me luck
It's hard to pick, but my fav song is Last Dance"
" idk, but, uh, you could dance on me any day "
   Families? Oh so now you KNOW these were families! Smh This is comical bullshit.
Im ready to dance la Chona
 we did some gymnastics in younger years but it was odd when we didn't really know each other! danc 
    Sunday afternoon so NBC can show World of Dance? 
"Happy birthday to you Dojoonah thanks for being born, being singer and being with us. Youre the most lovable per "
"Guys start getting married fast, I want to dance"
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
 Thats how Im going to dance when we are next out
"As I move through the croup, I look for familiar faces. There are a sea full of people dancing, sliding on the danc "
 Can I salsa dance with u
 RecoNexin  Ev'rybody dance now... Ev'rybody dance now Disfruta de Bob Sinclar! 
Prokofiev - Dance of the Knights  via 
We had so much fun at Inspire Dance Challenge! Congratulations on all of your accomplishments dancers! Season4 
 I can sha dance
I hope you dance
" I am too! She's gorgeous and has high dance numbers, which my cool teams lack pretty badly."
Samba in the Streets with us tomorrow at KAOS Network in Leimert Park! Dance &amp; Drum workshops will be lead by Luiz 
"     So, for those of us who don't want others to "
 Im constantly pausing the treadmill for mini dance breaks  its dangerous
 This is what he meant when he said hed have to miss the dance. He was talking about a 17th century ball
Come dance with us over Memorial Day weekend!!! 
Currently - toddlers and intoxicated adults on the dance floor - kinda the same thing. DJlife
  No films Joe. Just interpretive dance based on the reviews of Jeff Wells
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
"OMAHA! The Throwback Party is back this summer 

Lets dance! :  "
"High school  season is over with, let's see if I still remember how to dance at my 2nd home....  at Park Avenue D "
 from someone who almost quit because he had to dance to THIS he's so confident &amp; happy now 
"  Yes, perhaps our Police could use this as a training aid instead of the skate-boarding "
At the dance with my beautiful wife &amp; friends plus others  feeling happy at Franco-American Civic &amp; Social Club of 
"So the other day I posted a dance video that some hypocrites are dying for,with lots of complains ...Well that wa "
A silent juke party... Ive always wanted to go to a silent dance party but Ive never wanted to rub my ass against a random guy
"High school  season is over with, let's see if I still remember how to dance at my 2nd home....  at Park Avenue D "
Hey    Pride dance tickets should be available for pick up this week in Guidance. :) $10 
rock pop dance classic hits now: Who Said I Would by Phil Collins on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Shattered Dreams by Johnny Hates Jazz on  
" People were fainting out of excitement when Michael Jackson performed.

Remember doing the MJ dance with "
  she cant dance and she a white girl who decided to be calling black people blacks and sing a raci 
"Now we've got the parents on the dance floor, Go YWCA STEAM Engine!!! olneyville onamission "
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
" Smol ravin boi on the bright side, he can dance better than I can."
   Stupid Idiota thats not the point! They have to be armed to protect them 
" Since you can get the music in the house, convince yourself to go out just to buy some OH, come back home, "
"   Jimin isnt taller he just have a nice posture (ballet and modern dance)
And Yoongi doesnt"
  Looks like how i dance lol
Ciara Dance &gt;&gt; Beyonc Dance .. Im ready to argue ! Period !
 Did you get to do things like gymnastics or dance or yoga?  They are good for less competitive experiences
If you wanna go dance to banda with me and my mom lemme know
 I deadass just finished the flash mob dance with Aoife just there HAHAHAHAHHA
The what dance? 
" Don't talk too much,  what legislation do you people have in place to make Nigerian cars and planes "
Is there some rain dance I can do to make my acne go away faster now that Im on accutane?
    Before you could because sunge w and bands voices were diff 
  I love this dance!
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Glowing by Nikki Williams on  
  honestly just straight poppin advils before every dance and i still die
 Omg i hear their doing the dance
Ford suggests doing a dance and swim 1 km..
"She says nothing at all, but simply stares upward into the dark sky and watches, with sad eyes, the slow dance of the infinite stars."
"Lets dance!
put on your red shoes and dance the blues

please remember to tip your waitperson 

TGIF"
 but also maam take care of yourself!!! you need those feet to dance!!!!
She dont dance but she dance for me
Opening Night Tonight for Days of Dance  
" like..that split mid dance was ICONIC!
Literally when will yall favs Ever??
Freebritney "
"UJAM WEEKEND SCHEDULE!
Friday : 530 at the CRC 
Saturday:9 AM at the Dance Hall, 229 W. Main, MH
SUNDAY: NO class o "
"Just uploaded ""Friday 19 April 2019 - 08PM - Gavin Edensor's Dance Anthems"" to   Tune in now!"
Because its a holiday weekend!  flashbackfriday fbf friday weekend dance fun easter dancing instadaily 
" I had my first proper dance with a girl to this song, years ago, still a big fav of mine, the song "
"Now that the song (Before I Let Go) is out, we need a Touch My Body-esque music video. A choreographed line dance. "
"Students are making choices when they create choreography, they explore and think critically. Dance is academic. "
I forgot gay GOT stan twitter is still out there and Im going to receive spoilers no matter how many words I mute 
"One in a Million - Hannah Montana 

My first dance song at my wedding"
I watch the nmd dance practice vid a lot and comparing these two is literally so much IM SO PROUD OF HIMMMM
im playing U Was At The Club at the school dance tonight if its the last thing i do
"Feminine energy is so beautiful, the ability to be free, love and feel all your emotions, honestly, and wholehearte "
"THE GOOD THINGS DOWN UNDER 

RANDWICK - RACE 6 - CASTELVECCHIO 

DOOMBEN - RACE 5 - ORDER AGAIN 

ASCOT - RACE 1 - "
" I dont dance so no, but like I get what you mean with lyrics? Like youre singing along to a song and su "
You know its gonna be a real good night when everyone starts texting me with the Sooo what are our plans? I wanna 
cops dance in sarazanmai oh my god
Lonely cop flips a coin and lands in the Rocky Mountain foothills until she can't refuse the help of lonely dance t 
That couple on the other side of the piano? That's his walker in front. She brought a glass of wine to share becaus 
. Deck Dance Party with  NJDevils 
If I had one wish - Go to Magic City &amp; Then They Play Bands A Make Her Dance. I'm NEVER Going Home.. Lol you guys w 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np Xpantions - Move Your Body Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
"Ok jelpi here's my idea.

First, you give me a ggd cb in May or I'll bomb your building.

Then, you stop making Sal "
 Nice dance moves tho
"Original Dance Pop Song EDM Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


EDM Dance Club Party Electro "
"After a word from our sponsor, an alternative dance side-project of the KLF called L.A. Foldouts."
MyFacts i use Demons Dance skill
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  reggaemusic dancehall dancehalllink reggae JSO
Ari Ara learned to dance between snowflakes (better than I)   an excerpt from the novel  
 I dance better than you
 Don't equivocate and dance the centrist dance. Do something. Prove you're who you say you are.
  Thanks everyone! Have a lovely weekend! How lucky was I to dance with  
" That is possible,  Maybe I include some salsa dance videos for beginners on my ch "
 His eyes widen for a split second when she asked for him to show her. A light flush of pink  taint his c 
Dance it was...inside I wanted to scream like when Rocky climbs the mountain...but it was late  
Getting in some DANCE FIT with the ladies and my baby cousin.  He loves the hula hoop. 
  Well Mitch the shoe is on the other foot. Who is the newest king of BS? Honour and integrity 
"Dance is a poem of which each movement is a word  
: "
all this HU and Homecoming reminds me of my 1st yr on Campus and the Big Homie  breaking it down for 
 Can I have this dance
         
"  Rule 1 for French dance music of that era (Allemandes, Courantes, Sarabandes) is to make it f "
I wanna smoke ups and watch some sissy dance around for me
Im really crying my cousin made dance team. I miss that shit so much I really could have been on team with my own cousin
Sometimes i think i can dance and then i think about how im dancing and im like ahhhh nah nvm
I couldn't leave my best girl. Not when she owes me a dance.
"ND IS OFFICIALLY 1 DAY AWAY For being at the BEST two venues for a competition in the country, bundle tickets are "
" Mercymaker Week - Day 5: Dance 

A fortuitous encounter at a masquerade ball...
-
mercymakerweek mercymaker "
i wanna go to the club and dance.
"At one stage of TabahHoGaye, Madhuris dancing portrays that she is entranced... spellbound... possessed... all th "
"My younger siblings are hungry for wedding, if theres anything like that. No day goes by that they dont practice "
What do you get 400-600 ABs per season? You homer 20 times out of those at bats? You bet your ass Im pimping that 
"  White will not portray himself as the original savage &amp; Thug on screen.
 
Lesson :  Blacks MUST d "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Rest of My Life
 - Ludacris Ft. Usher &amp; David Guetta
 "
"Fri 24 MAY @ 230 PM: Join us for Mnowin by The Dancers of Damelahamid.

This family-friendly dance performance exp "
"  and let your memory dance 
in the ballroom of my mind 

lana del rey- 13 beaches"
Does anyone remember how to do the safety dance?
"This weeks episode is a 2 hour cut from Aly &amp; Fila's recent extended set live from Kyo Club, Kuala Lumpur!

This ep "
 That Joey Votto trust fall dance tho
 Ladies handbag. Order now! women womenhandbag woman fashion dance handbag ebay 
"Ripping a house show in Pilsen tonight! You can dance, you can jive, to a rare solo Richard performance  "
"I'm never gonna dance again
Guilty feet have got no rhythm..... "
"Anyone remember the ""Funky Chicken"" it was a dance in the early 70s"
 thank you :)  I- i just saw a few fancams and holy shit He Can Dance
"The geometric pattern reminds me of a dress fabric from my younger days (1950's and '60's).  So, my first reaction "
"It's April 19, 2019 at 06:15PM ~ and you know what that means... Time for the chicken dance!!! BwakBwak!"
 When  bans dance breaks
My son dont appreciate my corny ass dad dance moves!
 lol cut it out  you cannot dance
 wants to dance like Uma Thurman
DJ Getbusy  Retro Dance Live on air Mixdown March 26
Schoolboy Hoseok OWNS my heart istg if in an imaginary universe i was in the same high school as Hobi he would be m 
I have no rhythm and can't dance for shit but  Like a Girl has me dancing around my apartment like a damn fool and I love it 
" DEADASS THO, THE ONLY DREAM DANCE I DIDNT STRUGGLE WITH WAS MFAL"
We go here and they are great. Good teachers and a lot of fun! And it's a good way to make friends. There is a Game 
"Much more important than YouTube. 

ps. We found THE dress (in pic below)... &amp; shoes &amp; accessories! &amp; over 2 weeks "
" I'm just trying to potentially save a life.

PS; I can do every dance out there perfectly "
" Turn the tables? So your new top monkey boy, Barr is willing to dance some more, huh?
Keep crank "
" Breakcore is a style of electronic dance music influenced by hardcore, jungle, digital hardcore and "
 Watching him dance makes the hairs on the back of my neck stand on end  i dont think there will ever be a 
"So I finished my client project, sent deliverables &amp; was about to move on to car shopping, then to editing channel "
 WANKE DANCE 
Lmaoo i dance just like this in the crib 
And look over on the right at 9pm. Alan Dell. I was listening to his Dance Band Days programme right up until Malco 
"DONT MISS THIS Vocal/Dancefloor Banger!
&gt;&gt;Counting the Days... &lt;&lt;
Deep House EDM Dance Electro Pop Vocals "
Tom Petty &amp; The Heartbreakers - Mary Jane's Last Dance (live 2006)  
Finally watched the last Oedo Tai Dance... 
What the fuck do you mean my two favorite dance bois are friends we-
Mix 43  from CHEMBRAIN YouTubeMusicsubscribe music  electronic electronica edm 
"Semifinals 
NCAAGym Final Four 

Another classic  dance party sends the Bruins to tomorrow's NCAA "
"This warmed my stone heart, thank you I do 1 guided meditation a day when awake, usually just a 10 minute positive "
"For the first time, a team from Dynamic Cheer &amp; Dance is headed to a worlds dance competition. In tonight's "
 Im finding I have no patience for politicians whod rather dance around it than come straight out wi 
endearing and adorable Tinsley cant get a man to commit to an early bird dinner and  yet the self absorbed bethenny 
 why is your dance in this game????. 
 Sunset skyscraper stretches  dubai                                       .           bikini westindubai 
  Talking like that nobody is gonna take those shackles off your feet so you can dance mustbebaptist 
 Let Me Live I Have To DJ A Middle School Dance Tonight
"yep, I dance like Omari, that's why I just two step"
Lennox loves to dance  he has so much rhythm
Ass So Phat Need @ Lap DanCe! 
Celebrating Tim Bergling a.k.a.  his life and music now at  The Swedish DJ/producer passed away 
 What if Rod Tidwell didn't make that touchdown catch?  What if he didn't get up and dance afterwards?
"If we date, I would like to go to the museum and play monopoly, meanwhile eat  gummy bears. Then to make the date m "
 Laz better be ready to dance on that ass
Somewhere in forever well dance again
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino El Condor Pasa by Simon &amp; Garfunkel on 
 Did they make that announcement before the first one or was it because  UCLA had too much fun during the dance cam?
"Massore tonight, if you cant dance dont go"
"campexposurela offers a dynamic &amp; affordable camp experience which includes STEM, dance, tennis, music, water pl "
What dance were Sharon and Theodora Doing
dance your way into my heart akechi
LiveOnAir  with  Wig Dance- X  listen live anywhere in the world  
Its only the beggining. The world made you thought of art in all its forms  ilovetravel ZrceBeach
"Let's go LA...night !!!  returns with her Beautiful Trauma World Tour to 
 tonight with bloc's "
"I teach beginner modern dance and ballet. My daily data- students confident, mindful and innovative"
"On occasion, each must sip and not try assimilate, if they knavishly dance. "
" Shhh those lies will not save you from me  Ive seen you dance  
And theres a reason why I nev "
     May need to bring back Rajai Davis and the SOGO outfield dance 
I told tomas Mel and I have dance parties when we wake up in the a.m.            him:Why dont you guys have them 
 thought you were A-MA-ZING tonight! Absolutely loved the  show! Didnt realise dance co 
"If  dance like tortoise, recession will end"
"Original Dance Pop Song 2017 Electro Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


EDM Dance Electro Indie "
Calling Lisas dance boring is an opinion. It depends on the viewers take of the performance. But obviously lifting 
"Lost my bus pass, broke my phone, won a Burlesque audience dance off. It's been one heck of a week folks"
11 more followers for a hit or miss cringe dance
  Um...hold on boo. She never said she wanted to be apart of NSU culture. Its really not tha 
"December, 1963 (oh what a night) - frankie valli and the four seasons will always be one of my favourite songs an "
" Youre welcome 
You bet not !"
"Come and see  Maria KAIF 's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance girl   
 "
" i agree it's pretty bad, dany is overall pretty weird and her chapters aren't that great up untill dance"
makes me laugh so hard we had a school dance thing and i learnt this shit it was SOOO bad i cant breathe 
" Actually, no. I block them first because it always ends up being the exact same song and dance and it j "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Barbra Streisand (Radio Edit) by Duck Sauce on  
Best rock pop dance music Now You Should Be Dancing by Bee Gees on  
Let's go LA...night !!!  returns with her Beautiful Trauma World Tour to  tonight! Bloc's 
"   He was all kinds of awesome. And seriously, that guy was up dancin "
"""Let's go dance, my love,"" Yoongi whispers, peppering kisses along Jimin's jawline. The other giggles, eyes crinkli "
" - magic to ensure her safety.

Wanda would merely stay there to see if Nyx would get back up. Some "
 we don't have to talk we don't have to dance
 Tis safer to cry in a rolls Royce than dance in a Keke napep
"My brother wanted in on the actions too, what yall think?  New dance Video posted on YouTube, click the link in "
What/who has two thumbs and just turned in 89 pages of written work toward the end of finishing their second Master 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np   - Voodoo Ray Dance Soul   HipHop 
Carly Rae Jepsen wants you back on aching dance jam Julien: listen  
K guys you know what I'm just gonna jump of the bridge now I saw Jungkook's brilliant dance moves he is fucking pow 
"BTS:
Wears designer outfits 
2 comebacks per year
Has millions of fans
Can rap, sing and dance 

Jesus Christ of Na "
[NEWS] This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Moves 
You are Bored Why..Dont you dance with panda in the mountain and take acting
 After the sexyendscreen dance why give him fire????
Dance dance dance little girl  
this acc has become my dance diary i keep putting in logs of my progress fjfkdkkfkd
"TONIGHT! LUX   AND MYSELF PLAYING SOME RECORDS TO MAKE YOU DANCE, IN RETURN YOU BUY US DRIN "
   I need to learn this dance!!
Dance on brother  
 FFS!! Dance of the Mad followed by Auslander!!?! I'm 50 fecking years old! Had to take off the fitbit 
 They did say Jin came up w/ the best dance moves 
"Just favorited ""Louie Vega - Dance Ritual 19 APR 2019"" by  on Mixcloud "
  Well a friend of mine really wanted to get a lap dance by a stripper that looked like her 
    Thank you so so so much from the bottom of my heart that you made me 
Mope no be today this salsa dance started. It has been all lies all the way! We have been taken for a ride to nowhe 
 This the original caballo dorado hehe. They dance it this way in Jalisco
It aint none mo  breakup cutoff kcamp funny dance viral noworries problem lol lmao saywhatsinlivetv 
"Face painting in Mission Viejo for a school end of the year dance party.
newhartmiddleschool missionviejo "
Hi there! We're now playing Rob Base &amp; DJ E-Z Rock - Get On The Dance Floor ...... catch our Online Station on 
Hate hate HATE when people dance bachata to merengue
"ReviewRewind With the dull dialogue and clich romance narrative, HighStrung is on the brink of being a deadbeat "
oh and dance videos. i looove dance videos
   Python dance comes to mind
 Im just gonna play Just Dance and scroll through netflix for an hour trying to find something to watch
"And now Ian is looking at comic books while I dance to T Swizzle, so we both win  "
"  got the sound system on full blast, the LED strip lights on dance mode and the heating up!! Just t "
8 DAYS UNTIL RING DANCE 2019! WHOOP!  
"   You got this, Make it EPIC! Final Dance Party! NattyTitle19 GoBruins!"
this is what I imagine you looking like when u dance 
  I can't dance. 
    I truly want to believe that Jen and Sherri are decent and 
I did my MC Hammer Time dance to that tweet. 
"easteratoasis kicks off tonight at 7pm!  

OC's first ever Block Party will be immediately after service.

Live DJ "
Cant you see? I dont wanna slow dance
i feel like posting old dance vids
"Oh Erik, he taught me how to dance"
 I would say a dance battle too but they both got bad knees
Enter to WIN TICKETS to ANDAZ Bhangra Bollywood Dance with Anjali and The Incredible Kid April 27 at  --- 
"   Personally, I love him. I love his dance moves. And i love her. Win win win."
I'm basically the left over dance moves that Casey Frey doesn't use
 Stubbs said 'he will never do that again if he tries 100 times'  dance on my man 
"how is that lmfaobrooke girl gunna dance to dalla dalla 500 times yet not do it good ONCE, im hurt"
Vertigo International Master Class  A rare opportunity to learn from dance masters and co- 
I am a drunkard from another kind of tavern. I dance to a silent tune. I am the symphony of stars. -Rumi
Mariela the kid likes to eat scone and gulab jamun while watching Urban &amp; Dance Concerts
Anyone in Dallas down for it'll do tonight?? I really wanna dance
"Wait NO More!  Challenge Accepted!!! 
TDF Dance Cover | Banana Dance Challenge.

PLEASE LIKE OUR PAGE Tukuran Da "
Everybody wanted dance on The Be Your Best Self Tour going down at  getting the students fired up 
"i just saw a lone child standing on a hill next to the highway doing a fortnite dance

there is nothing around for "
 Dance Gavin Dance - Carl Barker
Within ten minutes of each other my sister and my wife both said I was right about two different things. I just pla 
Please support my GoFundMe campaign:   
Abigail about to head out for her middle school Spring dance
"   Yes, when confronted with proof of Trump's lies, please revert back to "
I should go to our dance studio in Adams Pointe but I ain't ready for that just yet. It's all over the place lol
"Original Dance Pop Song Techno Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Techno Pop Song Dance
Music "
"Can you perform this at my wedding? Same outfit, dance moves, everything. "
lets all sing and dance
"   They had guns pointed at people TWICE in a posted video. 

Most of the group was "
       They give each other reach-arounds while visions of 
 He wore that jacket to his 8th grade dance. 
"Brooks:Would you like to dance?
Celia:No I wouldnt.
Brooks:Why not?
Celia:Cause Im not your backup. "
Jisung Park was 14 when he became a dance legend 
Thinking about the time I seduced a girl with only my dance moves and statements about transhumanism and deus ex
Interested in taking adult hip hop classes? Wendy Leard School of Dance offers a wide variety of classes suited for 
"Fo don't dance, but I make moves "
wanna dance with my boy
 This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Mo  
i think about this picture (and the dance number that comes with it) daily  
"Quick break from  drama to dance to 5 6 7 8...

Misery off his chair. This is progress. 9/?"
    Ohhh maaaa gaaadddd I'm fricken crying.... tbh the only reasons why I 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock Listen Like Thieves by INXS on  
   I saw blur but I was more into dance music than bands so saw hundreds of DJs instead.
jodiecomers acting could dance circles around this group!! GrahamNorton
 This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Mo  
 This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Mo  
Idk if u can see Daniel but his dance during talk is... hahaha I couldnt help but laugh when I rewatched the video 
"  That was glorious, no other tool song made me dance!"
Carly Rae Jepsen wants you back on aching dance jam Julien: listen  
YOU'RE DOING GREAT SWEETY. I WISH I COULD DANCE SO  
Performing Arts and Dance Events in Stockholm:  via   Travel Stockholm Sweden
Can two polar opposites in life find common ground when...? DANCE WITH ME  unlimitedbooks dance
Bro I love this dance so much. It really made me come out of my comfort zone.  
"Yes, in fact, there *is* video of 8-year-old Kyler Gordon competing in a dance competition.  has it: "
Within the first dance song will also be there to regale you with old war stories an.
Woaaahh this is music I would dance to by myself 
6pm and Ive yet to do anything besides cry and dance around my room. Im recharging and once Im at full power Im 
 Bro bring her to my dance studio...we teach both...
Spent a night in Falsettoland watching these talented people sing and dance Falsettos FalsettosTour part 2 
"CDAs Comprehensive Dance. Physical benefits of comp. study in dance incl Physical Coordination, Strength, Balance "
"Latest video- If You Could See

Love comes in every color of the rainbow.
Remix "
World of Dance judges: We promise to score fairly. This show is about seeing ALL forms of dance represented! Contem 
"Around North County, several dance classes cater to the interests of adults. From classical ballet to cardio hip ho "
   I'm going to the dance with Rooter since he invited me to converge with The Estate 
 Did our Constitution make provision for dancing in nudity? If yes you are on point but if not and our cult 
Gotta love  and his dad dance ;) 
I finished Mirror Dance at work today and I think it has edged out Falling Free as my favorite Vorkosigan book whic 
This dance that I cannot dance ehn
  do you dance like this ?
"Check out this dance cover of ATEEZ ""HALA HALA""  ATEEZ   "
on the plus side Im learning Dionysus chorus bc its actually kinda easy just a lot of repetition and I want to le 
 I'd bet this is not their 1st dance together.  Great! 
"* starts to rain*
Me : oh it's raining 
Mateos: ik it's kinda nice 
Me : yea it reminds me of Rm 
Mateos: u wanna d "
Mystery as some residents hearing dance classics blaring across West Dublin  DublinLive  
 The skin and dance is perfect 
"Its 2019, we walk past Dance Moms stars without saying a WORD when we see them at the airport"
"Dear Tae good luck for your comeback .. takecare your health, and please dont be injury, dionysus dance move is spe "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Ride Like The Wind by Christopher Cross on  
"before every show, I take a moment to pray and reflect on everything Gods given me. I thank him for giving me the "
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Who Do You Love by Kate Ryan on  
rock pop dance classic hits now: Talking In Your Sleep by The Romantics on  
 This is turning out to be a dance of morons.  The president cannot give an order to an employee to pe 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np You Make Me Feel by Sylvester on  
"lmao i got doyoung, but they made me choose a song to dance to but i don't listen to any of the artist they put in "
"I studied ballet and acting for all of my life, and it totally prepared me for my career as a stripper. I dance and "
Did anyone try to help shawty when she was fire burning on the dance floor or did they just call the cops
Only competition we de do Na who de dance pass 
   Mate no one can resist those dance parties. They're class.
AeroYoga is about dancing in the air. It is a conscious and aerial dance that drives the move towards an indescr 
 CarryOn is in the top 10 Dance chart on iTunes DetectivePikachu  
Acosta is as riveting to watch now as he ever was. 
  To do what in the event?dance?  Sing? Smile?
We're not done Coachillin'... We're back in the desert for Weekend  of Coachella + we're ready to dance the day 
 ..... time for lights out!! Alarm set... bags are packed!! Road trip to Nottingham- Waited for this 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Breathe Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. Manchester  
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Forza:Duo Radiance Vol.9 16th March by forza_duo Thank you for liste 
"Twitter rules:
You are nobody unless you are everybody's fan
Don't comment on people's tweets these people are furi "
"*NEW* Leaked ""Nitehare"" Skin Showcase With All Best Fortnite Dance Emotes..! "
" + and sat upon it, guitar upon his knee.

After throwing his bag in front of him to receive the mone "
 Better dance to La Chona out there and get down girl!!!! Record that shit!!!
Strips and gives  a lap dance.
ive been listening to Evaporate all day due to Andrew Wells. oof. such a nice addition to dance gavin dance
GoodSoundsRadio NP The Shadows - Dance On on  or  
"  I cant wait for our next dance, Beef!!"
*Not if he keeps drinking like that. He is doing the mating dance. :) * 
I never talk about that school lmfaoooo but I hated it. Only good think was Dance class with Ms Hula &amp; my bus drivers were coo asf
Spent a night in Falsettoland watching these talented people sing and dance Falsettos FalsettosTour part 1 
"Daniel Idoko &amp; 
Daniel Akpa 
still want 2 go out 2 drink &amp; dance zanku tonite.
So Jesus Christ crucifixion no pain una for body?"
 Why would he perform a mating dance at a time like that?
y y b  g f f y dc  :
Ive been watching the Beyonc Homecoming special during my flight &amp; its making me wanna dance 
"me to someone at work isnt this live music just awesome??
them why u wanna dance
BRUH NO WHAT"
Tomorrow we celebrate a dance music icon as we honor the 1 year anniversary of our brother up in a sky full of sta 
"SUPPORT  MJ |R| A D I O 

"
Lady GaGa - Just Dance
Ray Boddington - brought a smile to many and loved his city - a trip to Manchester and guarantee youd see the 
"   Ooooh boy, he is gonna have to tap dance really quickly to get around that speech"
Wow City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
1d released album and went on world tour every year and they were exhausted because of overworking. they didn't eve 
dance com sua mina ao som de elvis - can't help falling in love
 thank you for your performance tonight at Wimbledon Theatre. You inspired my daughter who is passionate 
I think I recognize Kershaw and Verdugo source of their dugout dance....copycats.... 
    That red oval has always perplexed me. Does it show Brian 
Tune in now to listen to your favourite DJ's : Forza:Duo Radiance Vol.9 16th March by  Thank you for list 
"I just found out.. that gurl who get hurt so much  so she wears got7 shirt, dance to itzy, and vlog about Chan... "
"Oh my g*d that guy in the front right.

This isnt going to be a dance like nobodys watching  post.  By now you "
Want to learn the ins and outs of modern dance essentials?! Join our Introduction to Modern Series! Learn the basic 
"Ready to dance all night then Rock tonight at GoodVibesOnly 2019!
 goes on at 12:30! Come dance al "
    In the videos they posted they had their guns pointing at people.
"NYC PALS COME THROUGH AND DANCE WITH ME AT MY LAST RARE CANDY SHOW EVERRRRR!!!! 
 Im gonna be v emo lol "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np DJDexterous - Nice N Slow Dance Soul  HipHop &amp; more. 
"Listen Gaby Volcan- Dancing Soul of np on SoundCloud
 soundcloudrapper soundtrack "
 just dance
 Awe man!!! You should dance at the airport!!! 
NOT @ JHOPE AND JIN MAKING FUN OF HER DANCE IMMMMM I luv them all 
" What happened to your happy dance because you were ""totally exonerated?"""
"   Yes, crackheads can do it!
And for those comparison people, let Breezy do this (dance w/ a kidn "
"Original Dance Pop Song House Remix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


House Pop Song Electronic "
" ""i don't dance"" is literally ryan asking chad to swing his way and then in the next scene they're w "
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Is This Love by Aiden Grimshaw on  
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing I Belong To You by Lenny Kravitz on  
I like the wallows I dance to them
their dance in the square looked a little different in the beginning than usual but then again i dont pay attention too much lol
Still waiting for  to get raw with the fever on the dance floor and send me those tracks.... We'll be celeb 
"Current situation.....very productive Good Friday! @ Dance Studio ""B"" "
. spills about his love for the WestCoast with a dance-inspiring visual spanning throughout Cali  
" No other songs taught is to dance? Arky? No Hokey Pokey?

thatiswhatitsallabout"
 dance floor issue seems like Sean didnt trust Lynda! She a big girl! Seans just anti social!
"Original Dance Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Electro EDM Pop Song Dance "
Great night believing its the early 90s and we can still dance like loons  
Songbird Cafe Radio Now playing Dance With Me In The Rain by Cyndee Gray Harr!
"I dance just like my dad lmao. Stiff, gangly and awkward as hell. What a vibe"
Luo tribe showcasing their cultural dance as part of the annual cultural day celebration organised by the 
CHIZOBA by Rudeboy  official dance video (Kenya x Nigeria) Dropping in a few hours on my YouTube channel { Kevoh da 
"Kids: *whining about not having dance*
Me: Do i hear whining???
Student: If you are going to whine bring some cheese with it
"
that dance nupe does is soooo goofy to me  like wyd
 lets have a dance party
 I lowkey didnt think this tweet was that funny originally but I cant stop laughing at It rn underratedtweet
 I'm in love with this dance 
" i just dance, like just put in headphones blast music and dance"
THX Pittsburg convergence: Our last song of the night in the 1st city that ever played a  son 
Amazing.  did not approve Diclofenac. 1st need preapproval. So doctor went through the dance. Then d 
"Camelphat and Cristoph's ""Breathe"" (Eric Prydz Remix) Featured in Tisto's Club Life -  - Th "
 Guess Miller is ok with relievers or pitchers try to kill batters bc of a bat flip. While they dance on 
Me when I am in the mood to party and no one wanna dance with me... PARTY OF ONE BITCHESS  
 I will also include a bonus description of the dance you must perform once your TESTs pass. If you don 
2019 Seniors interested in dancing in college- awards tuition and book dance scholarships! Tigerettes 
"Original Pop Song Original Mix Enjoy!

Soundcloud


Pop Song Electronic Electro
Dance "
 lol nah G. Its only certain ones that I do all that with. You cant dance with everybody. 
scheduleupdate: Iante Mellors will teach Cardio Dance from 9-9:45am on Apr 23. Paul Boos will teach Adv Int Ballet 
I would be sad that I had foot surgery on the day that the new  album came out and I cant dance but its imp 
"Review: In the Mets Siegfried, Singers Transcend theStaging "
"1,2,3 tasty snowflake, run society's anger. Always yell and dance ""Baby, baby, baby!"""
Time to dance to some of the biggest songs from back in the day.  is taking care of the ClassicMix on 
"    LOL He even used ""GarySinise"" for the GoFundMe link to rai "
   I think they meant his dance moves not Shawty....
  Hahaha honestly not mad about it
. bringing TU Dance: Come Through collaboration to Kings Theatre 2019.  
Creatures of my dreams rise up and dance with me
" of you. My hands travel to the fastenings of your clothing, working on them while continuing to allo "
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Suicide Blonde by INXS on  
"Don't miss out on this month's celebration of Chinese heritage at Presidio Picnic! This Sunday, head to the Main Po "
"""Travelling"", from AnimHeru's debut album, ""Emergence""...  on SoundCloud? np  "
" 3rd august 2018 3:25pm 
ik the time bc thats when i watched the dope dance practice.... according to my history :))"
The breathtakingly horrific real estate advert everyone is talking about 
"The dance of the fire devils...
Muirburn on the Isle of Bute, as seen from the narrows at Rubhan, Tighnabruaich. Fr "
  Nice dance
"FridaynightMixdown w.  |  |  
c|  

""City's Vibing"" "
cage the elephant makes me dance tantantrangaangan
" Poker Face
 Dance in the Dark
Marry the night
 Gypsy
 Anything goes
 Million Reasons 
 I'll never love again"
lowkey started to dance again and totally forgot what a workout it was no wonder I could eat like shit in highschool
Listen to Darkovibes - Dance For Me by Darkovibes np on SoundCloud 
 exhibition skate w just dance 
My daughter will be 13 this year and I just dropped her and off to another dance and she had perfume on. Im not ready to be a dad. Nope.
 I do gymnastics :) and I dance!
"My whole family does this and not one of them has stepped foot on NSU campus, they learned it at a line dance class. "
  LMFAO you are NOT wrong
 This is heavenly.  Who is his dance teacher?  And how can one so young be so coordinated.  Most adults 
In other news  and  where spotted at moria doin the ZCC signature dance move  
" I so wish I couldve gotten to meet you, but this tweet alone has made my day! Thank you for being awe "
"Now playing B Real,Busta Rhymes,Coolio,LL Cool J &amp; Method Man by Coolio music best hits rock pop dance on "
Same Song and Dance 
"we needed to take headshots for my hip hop dance class so i had a mini photoshoot by my friend, here are some swagg "
FeedbackFriday for our dance artist  who delivered a tea dance workshop  recently-part of 
" If GTMBB is going to dance, it will be in 2019-20. Im on the Pastner train until 3/20."
Lose Yourself to Dance 
Lose yourself to dance DaftPunk  
 is doing his thing again de way Yaro pogba dey dance no aswear lamar is making it            
I want to dance
" Can I say the 'moonwalk' is a dance step that will live forever till humans become extinct.

MJ taught humanity this step."
 You aint finna dance with me. I aint going 
Y'all wish you could dance like this kid 
"  You know thats Dance Dance Revolution, right? I mean dont get me wrong, Im down w "
Asking me to move from the spot I'm standing in so that you can put on a dance routine is NOT a good way to get me 
Bollywood dance troupe the Super Sahelis will take our main stage at the For Kids Sake Closing Celebration. This f 
Finallyyyy done! my brand new original mix!  chill dance
"As you dance through TV staffing season you have multiple opportunities: read scripts, network with writers, and "
*your dance moves oops. I get so flustered I can't even speak English.
If you know any kids interested in dance ages 7-17. We are on the hunt for the baddest seniors and fiercest juniors 
 dance with me
"I love piano improvisation. Sometimes, you just need to let your fingers dance on the keys. It feels so good! Liste "
"Could you imagine spending 4 hard, grueling years of college, spending mommy and daddys money and taking out loans "
"Favorited ""Quarter One 2019: Uplifting, Funky, EDM/DANCE/POP Mix""  by "
"When you run past Girls College, dance jaggedly and dance the scotch tape."
When you random mash buttons to the pet dance but get 2/5 right anyways
"you may stumble, make it part of the dance"
  HAHAHAHAHA IM SO RILED UP BY THIS
" Looking up for a moment, she watched her children, they flew around, chasing one another, almost in "
 Thats my era of dance. I remember it well.. they are great  
 The chest piece is one of my fav EVER! But I need to get that dance 
"  Did you know Quickbooks now plugs into Onlyfans, so we can stop dodging tax now?"
"'Cause nobody knows it better
Than the girl in the corner with the scarlet letter
And while you're watching
You may "
"  I listen to music, dance, sing, write songs, watch netflix, go out with friends or just sleep"
Dance Party Last Night A Work Was Pretty Cool I Enjoyed My Self With The Kids!! Mr.Rowell Was Litty  
Im off that yak I wanna dance come get ya maaaan
"you wanna drink like Bajan and dance like Trini!
yeah, you wanna supermodel pose like mi fake friend W*nnie! "
Fire and Blood is a phenomenal book. The Dance of Dragons though... is confusing. I can barely keep up. I keep look 
Dance is in a week omg 
"Every time I go on Twitter, it feels like I am an outsider in a group chat with  and "
ei hago dance cover de kill this love???? que disen tinistas
"In the meantime, dance your ass off"
"   if youre a huge B fan, I would suggest moving some furniture for room to dance"
"BPM

  

Show coupon image, discount!

tokyo shibuya club BPM Discount Club dance "
If you dont dance until your clothes break you dont dance at all 
This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Moves  
"The ballet has not aged well, especially in the wake of MeToo. "
 It's been a while taking in music quizzes as well so I stand by it. You're just disappointed  didn't dance.
Humans will adapt way faster than an algorithm for this dance. Like when the general public learned google works 
"Why can't you hold me in the street?
Why can't I kiss you on the dance floor? "
The light up dance floor is all ready to go - join DJ Travis Bell &amp; us for a night full of dancing from 9pm to 1am 
When you watching YOURS dance to it lol 
    Yeah walk it off and do the Avengers dance!
"  When I watched  MJ dance I do feel cold,Beyonce never reach that level,
Even Beyonce will be "
"Trying to plan for something on May 3rd, but I dont want to look like a 10 year old loser and Im trying to fit my "
"  Michael should not be responsible for this guys horrible dancing, he says Michael tau "
TONIGHT at  FREE line dance lesson with Pat Redwine from 7-8pm! $5 21+; $10 (18-20). No cover 8-10 
Shots was cuttin from 1 show to da next in da middle of runs n dance breaks....da audio/everybody was so synchroniz 
   And for the record: that guy in his 70s was cool as fuck and would 
waves by dean lewis and in my blood by shawn mendes are such popular dance songs here and like I CAN SEE WHY. i hav 
" I managed to dance, dont you worry"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Crucified by Army Of Lovers on  
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing This Is Not America by David Bowie on  
"Fullmoonparty  killing it seriously at HotelDiplomate in Muyenga hill.
Dance Electronic music "
So this Southwest flight attendant on my plane was playing music and this man goes come on everybody dance dont m 
"Issa dance move 
 


goodvibes dance fit bulk lean muscle pump shoulder physique "
It's fucking amazing how I still remember the lyrics to I'm Never Gonna Dance Again
"Its amazing how big of a deal a bat flip is. Guys do big cellys in hockey all the time when they score a goal, sh "
"Contra Dance this Saturday, April 20 in Lawrence, Kansas - updated details -  "
 Good 80s Dance Hall
Lets Dance the Night away! dance drinking music washingtondc maryland @ Ultrabar 
"""Dance as if somebody's watching, because they are."" "
   Why are they allowed to just set up camp on government-owned land and use milit 
NEXT ADVENTURE:   Let's Dance to NEXTLIFE!
 You take care of yourself that's what's important. You have given so much and never asked for anyt 
"TOP SUMMER-SANDYMUSIC(OH I KNOW, OH I KNOW DANCE 2019) YOUTUBE  via  bestdance2019 "
Los igualados never fail to make me wanna dance
When you and your 12yo break out in the same weird synchronized dance-moves in the kitchen..thats joy
I DONT DANCE ALL I DO IS THIS... ITS THE SAME HAND MOVEMENT WIT A LIL TWIST
 WEEKEND PARTY AT THE PATIO! starts NOW in our Addison location.. Come join us! Join us today to dance and have lo 
Jay Trigga  Make Dem Dance ft. Dremo. MP3DOWNLOAD  
Jay Trigga  Make Dem Dance ft. Dremo. MP3DOWNLOAD  
    I reckon Lib Dems and Greens have experience and infrastruct 
"Can't you see?
That I don't wanna slow dance 
In the dark"
"Malec, dancing scene and ""Dance me to the end of love""?

I would like to see it."
Wow Mom this year with  ultimate experience. Bring her to the Dance with Your Son Gala on 
Meet the new 2019-2020 Dance Team! Just wait until you see this team...  
Love that part in the vogue routine when I start doing carpal tunnel stretches on the dance floor.
Happy Easter from Dance Champs -  
I feel bad for my future kids cause imma embarrass them to high heaven. Mama loves to dance 
"Hi. I write, learn dance and langages, and am a Drama and TV addict. "
Dance Blogs ofOahu  
 Im having a karaoke &amp; dance party in my room
 Saying the brothers need a dance off 
"  It is a dance style, but they used it as the basis for magic in the Dr Strange movie. A bon "
 Na from clap dance dey start. 
GF16 Here we have the Moment when GF makes the Housemates Dance again  
Let's go baby and dance now Toca Me (Inpetto 2008 Mix) by Fragma on  
" Cheers to the freakin weekend! 
.
.
.
 
.
.
.
nola nolaphotoguild "
This song is in honor of my new follower count. I couldnt have reached it without the first 408 of you. But YOU. Y 
"RAIN OR SHINE tomorrow, bring your umbrellas!We are excited to meet the Easter Bunny, play games, create crafts, "
Infinite Dance Cover - Season2 + Destiny + BTD  Share &amp; visit. Tq ^^
2 of my 6 friends make fun of me when I dance 
"""You want fame?  Well, fame costs.  And right here is where you start paying...in sweat.""  2MORROW, 4/20.  It's our "
I miss this guy. Turn it up and dance a little. fridays sunnyfridays howdybeer raccoonscantdance @ Flatirons 
" False, both can obviously dance better than her but they arent better performers. Have you seen how perf "
live Dont Feel Like Crying (MK Extended Remix) by Sigrid music  radio onair dance
We're throwing a Game of Thrones GIF party. Join us  
"Its Friday, so you know what that means! Click the link in my bio for MORE!!  thebuzz "
One week from today our Westwood female scholars and Eastwood 4th grade female scholars are invited to our Daddy Da 
"30 Years Ago: Maradona taught us all how to dance liveislife formaradonacokewaslifetho
"
Lets go for twenty! Prompt is dance if you want to use it.  NaNoWordSprints
"If, so far, BTS's catchy, pop-like singles and dance moves haven't grabbed you, take a listen to a few other cuts f "
This boy dance pass me 
Just had a dance off and I won
 This Little BLINK Is Stealing Everyones Heart With His DDU-DU DDU-DU Dance Mo  
DANCE VIDEO: Olamide SPIRIT  
one dance - drake
"""Does he love me?,"" asked the questioner. Around this time in human society what is possibly the most anchoring que "
ud think trap djs could dance to their own music but no just cringeworthy arm movements off snare. 
Get your taste buds ready to sample some of the best chili and beer around at the SacBeerChiliFest in Sacramento 
"Hanks 50/50 celebration dance kills me
Barry"
Dothan native lived her dance dream on stage with Beyonc  
Coachella was super cool until I realized since its all ages I have to drink my beer in a beer garden and not on the dance floor :(
"This weekend, experience what happens when cosmologies, urban cowboys &amp; dances of freedom take the stage. The Pilot "
Everybody look this kids doing the dance right now off that flouride
"Nairobians can drink tequila and dance to Mexican-Kenyan fusion music at Blend Lounge on a Saturday night, then wor "
Roll That Shit Up is OUT NOW!! Link in my bio. Please share with everyone you know that likes Hard Dance and Dubste 
Jumee  returns to MusicLov3rz Magazine NewSingle SoDeep  ...  
" My baby, I will miss you. "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Kygo &amp; Rita Ora's Carry On 
lemme get a african shorty or sum they be knowing how to dance 
Haaaaa my coworker started blasted that Bobby shmurda here at work cause I told him I had a date. But why he at the 
"What a great way to raise awareness about HIV and AIDS! 

"
"Jack then walked to the gym, where the dance was."
"April 19

Dhadkan Mixer
Nachle Deewane is an annual inter-collegiate dance competition hosted by UCSB Dhadkan, a ph "
"Blasterjaxx - Children Of Today

Yeah, Yeah,
Blasterjaxx's new single is OUT NOW.
It's very nice Progressive sound. "
" This is so disgusting. Why are they dressed like that? Are they in fucking Iraq? 

They are rounding up p "
Some of our dancers have also been busy at the Babbacombe Theatre these holidays!!
truth is i caNT dance yall just dont wanna be mean to me
Lets do the shadow dance 
" our brother is getting married, we have left the dance floor for a glass of proper 12!!! Fuk Khabib Proper12"
why upload a dance cover if youre gonna move like you have osteoporosis
they dance like kiddos and giddy mom/dad at the same time 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Sweet Harmony Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
the way i dance in my room to stairway to heaven will be seen by nobody ever.
"if the leafs win tonight I will learn the entire dance to You Make My Dreams from 500 Days of Summer

picture the w "
LUCIFER_JAPAN DANCE DELIGHT VOL.22 FINAL_2015.8.29  via 
I have no one to dance with to Los Tucanes de Tijuana 
 Didn't know you could dance
"one of my favorite shows in pdx was  at doug fur. they had a secret dance party in an empty lot after, "
Bootcamp in the am! Im excited!
Only four days until  spring season opens at the David H. Koch Theater! Find out what the company has i 
Blood on the Dance floor 
"a Dance Mag, Issue 02: Furor "
"If I had to be a policewoman this is the only position that I will love doing, directly traffic while dancing in tr "
90s Disco Techno  Shuffle Dance Video  via 
"$$TAG A DANCER The Let go dance Challenge is here. 
ENTER TO WIN $300EURO

Instructions:
1. Post a video of you dan "
Enjoy with good rock disco pop music np I Love To Love (But My Baby Loves To Dance) by Tina Charles on 
"and if you have nightmares, we'll dance on the bed. i know that you love me, even when I lose my head. guillotine"
MOMOLAND  BBoom BBoom cover dance by N(x)  20180414 
Shitty ass week
  Can you imagine the symphony of inane drivel coming from their mouths???
I fell in love w shawty when I seen her on the dance floor
"kinkybootstour Kinkyboots Amazing!!! I want to be able to dance... no scrap that, walk in heels the way those Angels and Miss Lola do!!!"
 If you think its ok to have a professional body behaving like schoolchildren then I respect your vi 
"We came together as a family today to celebrate, encourage and dance! Our students are ready to show what they know "
 Mi preferido es 'shut up and dance'
"TGIT - thank goodness its Ty-day!
.
.
.
.
TGIF dirtysugar nowgobefabulous headshot headshots actor actress "
  Long live this generation get off the couch and dance .
i will never take dancing for granted again ughhhhhh want to dance
"that smile she did right before she did the dance break of ""Everybody Mad""... she knew she was about to eat! BeyoncHomecoming"
 about the work dance floor playing in the club !!!
First time playing homecomingalbum in the shower &amp; my shower concerts just elevated to a whole nother level!! 
I literally was just experiencing this on the bus. I try to mainly listen to it in the house so I can dance freely. 
anytime Donald Glover does something pro black or does a dance i just be looking like... 
Walked to a public stall while doing the i have to pee dance to the same beat as the room music. itsthesmallthingsiife
"2/2

I fling my hands up in the air
I have no cares upon me now
I dance around your body
and we are made here in th "
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Whenever
 - Kris Kross Amsterdam Ft. The Boy Next Door &amp; Conor Maynard
 "
Hajii Releases His Amazing New Single SNUL As A Free Download  Blogs Moombahton Dance 
A few dance moves to add to your Easter celebrations. Just saying. 
"So far that image is the only thing I've been able to see from ""Shall we Dance?"" And just with that I'm crying "
Now playing - The Humpty Dance - Digital U by Various Artists 
She Is One Of Our Planet's Greatest Dancers..=-)...And She Has Some Of Our Planet's Greatest Dance Moves..=-)...I W 
 omg what a coincidence i was doing my i love joy dance... 
LUCIFER HOUSE DANCE CROSSING 2018  via 
 Igbo dance
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Ticket To Heaven by Dire Straits on  
We can dance Nobby's dance ItsComingHome
Best rock pop dance music Now Stupid Girl by Garbage on  
"Join us this year - Tickets Available on our Website 
Celebrating 20yrs of Dance
MarcellusDanceStudio "
Sly &amp; The Family Stone - Dance to the Music
Going live early for our long weekend! Tonight we rock in with some Grymkin for lock n load 2019! Bring your best 
 Yeh! Do that dance!
the show wasnt bad or anything but unfortunately the best scene in the umbrac tv adaptation was the I Think Were 
"One Dance Rehearsal This Weekend with Dudley Flores and Rhythm &amp; Motion Dance Program at ODC
Remember all ages and "
"If we don't have another sprint leader, let's do a twenty minute sprint at :00. There's another reward for you at t "
We are open today and tomorrow for classes. easterweekend dance dancestudiolife dancestudio @ Gasper's School o 
 But me do fort nite dance or no ok? U tell me 
 Fantastic!!! I say age is just a number all the time but I think I would be huffing &amp; puffing by the 
Not at how Billboard called this dance cover boring while locals wishing Lisa to do her swalla dance in COACHELLA i 
How can you dance like that &amp; still stay in key 
New band name idea: Dance Belt Rebellion
PERA School of Performing Arts  GAU is holding workshops and auditions in Lisbon &amp; Porto   
 Because hes always so positive and joyful. And I could relate to him in some way with dance cause Im a competitive dancer
BACK IN PALACE!  MJTheShow MichaelJackson Dance Show KingOfPop MJ Crew Mallorca Spain 
There isn't a single candidate on either side of the aisle that is currently qualified or prepared to face the dance.
"Ive said it before and Ill say it again, white people shouldnt dance "
Okay can someone really teach me how to dance  
 Oh i loved it     used to go to club at old rugby ground  all the lads in frilly shirts and makeup 
"HIS VISUAL,HIS VOICE, HIS DANCE MOVES, HIS EXPRESSION, HIS STAGE PRESENCE! God Hes literally PERFECT at EVERYTHING "
How to do the Roger Rabbit | Mari Koda (Step Up) | Beginner's Guide  via   Be sure t 
I have recently shared my new dance partner tricks and salsa dance performances. I have also performed a whole seri 
JAPAN DANCE DELIGHT VOL.20 FINAL  SPECIAL PRIZELUCIFER  via 
Were doing it big tonight  in Mill Valley w/  See yall on the dance floor. Tickets at 
Uptown Girls has started playing and no one is will dance with me
I wanna go see the 1975 live but just dance in the back by myself and live my best life
"Slowly teaching myself how to dance.
It will never see the light of day, much like my singing, but it's fun! "
GF16 GF makes the Housemates Dance again then makes them Freeze in place  
ALSO LIKE ???? their music makes me dance so hard &amp; what they have 2 say is genuinely inspiring ??? now i see why m 
  Deep house is our culture in SA lets dance
"After the Farmer's Market, we'll be at Guthrie Green celebrating Earth Day and educting people on the magical power "
Cally | BSSS  
"First thing first, I likin' all kinda hoes
Some go to school, some dance with no clothes.."
Being fat at home then about to binge on practicing dance
Everybody mad dance is actually the best choreography Ive ever seen in my entire life
 I have a Bachelor's degree in psychology and I love to dance like no one's watching.
this what you see when you tell  to dance 
"Weve had a busy Good Friday here at JW! From staff inventing new games to dance off challenges, weve definitely s "
  old keyboard tough guy Eric thinks he is important. Also thinks he can word dance with 
  Michael had repetitive dance steps also.He was a legend no doubt.but dont try to discredit 
 Which kyn dance dis nite???
"The album dropped.
Listen to PLANET by mercurymademedoit np on SoundCloud NewMusic HipHop Rap Electric Dance "
 Dance fever!! 
Now playing Beast Of Burden by The Rolling Stones music best hits rock pop dance on  
7DOWN 8UPPER_JAPAN DANCE DELIGHT VOL.25 FINAL_2018.8.25  via 
" Ok, but do you know a good chiropractor?  I will probably need it after doing that dance.  Of course, "
 What?! You mean theres no interpretive dance?!
 this is how u dance to cudi 
Some days I just want to be Kevin Bacon in Footloose and do an angry dance montage. We've all been there. totp
 Drunken Kilgrave couldnt help but let out a soft moan of pleasure as he let Lokis tongue dance aroun 
"The kids at work are playing Just Dance, so Ive had to listen to Fancy All About That Bass and Uptown Funk a "
"  People seem to think that grief is just always crying 24/7. Im sure, as she confirmed "
Is this where  got the dance for the 7 Deadly Sins - Sunflower video???  CAUSE I STAN! 
Did you hear about how much money UGA Dance Marathon raised for Children's Healthcare of Atlanta?! Check it out: 
 Theyre so great! Will be sending you my fav dance video some point soon 
"dance, party, repeat. "
 Haha had to teach him how to dance at a young age
Cally | BSSS K POP DANCE 
opinions on your fave nut (me)  i love y my fave nut more than anyone even if she does stan the wrong dance and is 
"They LOVE to dance. You could say they've perfected their method, and like to show off in front of their friends.  "
"Minorly worried, that after 6 weeks with almost zero physical contact with humans, I'm going to have a brain fail a "
" Not because of the vocals or the dance moves. Like Kelly came to slay. Michelle, well she showed up."
Breema is wonderful! Breema: The Dance of Existence by Susan Mankowski  via 
"Trying not to drink alcohol? U can still go out w. ur friends, go 2 a club &amp; dance off some calories."
  Last dance with mary jane
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Angel Of Mine by Monica on  
" Twi'leks come in many colors.

They don't just dance well apparently they blend too."
 We both dance randomly even when there is no music. Also we are both like the sunshine of our friend group.
The people have spoken. Im dropping out of college. I need to start practicing so DM me if you want a dance on the house!
" Lol yes go to franklin girl try the new bar Buds or dance at pistons !!! 

I would take allllll the shots w you"
Some dance to remember. Some dance to forget.
 Opp... He found it.  We are off to control you now.   How you enjoy the dance party.
has a really good song triggered you? I want to dance and cry at the same time. 
Critics Pick: Review: JACK Quartet Conquers an Elliott CarterMarathon 
        OH GOD YES
 If youre going into dance I would go for the Jacksons  since edea skates are more common for singles 
"Well, don't it make you want to dance? Don't it make you want to smile?  psychedelic jams and bluegr "
Theres a 12 year old girl whos been dominating the dance floor and my mate (26) started dancing and she hated it 
"Bernie Sanders: We need to make these specific changes to improve things
Dems: Wow pander much??

PolitiClone No. 8 "
Ponte Bellaca Ft John O. &amp; E.Q. (Chad Jack Nu Mix) by RhythmDB house dance nudisco beatportcharts 
this album is bringing me back to life after i have had a MONTH  get into some funky disco dance vibes and give 
 Yeah I wanted to get that one on my left wrist and then the clover logo from I wish on my right one so whe 
"Sing, dance and a good work ethic. "
"These really bring me joy! I searched all over and 3rd time was the charm. Danny found them in the back for me, and "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np SlamCollective - Heaven N Hell Dance Soul  HipHop &amp; more. 
"i wanna a slow dance w/ u
i just wanna a slow dance w/ u
why dont u tkae the chance
i got the moves
i like to prove "
  I hold beers at the club too. Especially if Im attempting to dance. If you see me use my 
"I can't wait until I finally record a dance vid this weeknd , it's been years &lt;3"
Critics Pick: Review: The English Concert Brings a MarvelousSemele 
 Working on that New New in the studio! staytuned fashiondesigner fashion eveningwear dresses dance 
"Ultimate Rejects, X-Change, Richie Loop ft. Ioni - Dance Floor on SoundCloud np "
New MorningswithMadge featuring Things I Said Yes To and a FRiYAY Dance Party! Its a tasty twofer. Huzzah! 
I found an error in someone elses spreadsheet. I did a little dance because math is not my strong suit by any mean 
"Wow... you can really dance 
Wow... you can really dance 

He went dum dum dum 
He went dum dum dum 

They said we "
I haven't done that dance since my wife died
this is the best dance Ive ever seen 
Join the Dance Party at the Asylum. To Damascus runs from April 23rd-28th so be sure to reserve your tickets now! 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Moving On Up (M People Master Edit) by M People on 
"   see who dey laugh us say we no sabi dance,"
"NP//  - Dance Like Mandela DanceParty TGIF w/  
MoreMusicRadio"
does anyone remember sket dance
"Let the party begin  everybody must be feeling good. Being bought drinks, asked to dance AND, I just walked in the "
I love self titled Dance Gavin Dance so damn much cannot wait until Monday 
 Swapped out 3 wraiths and a baph for 2 Dance with Deaths and 2 imp lancer
Give your girl the right pair of shoes- dance shoes! Registration is now open for summer classes and Lucky Season 1 
"NEW SINGLE COMING APRIL 26

What matters is that as soon as the first light cracks through the cold air, they danc "
So I took  advice and followed my crush on Instagram. Update: he didnt follow me back but thats the risk 
" ""What do you mean dance breaks aren't cool?"""
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Straight Up by Paula Abdul on  
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Mamma Mia by ABBA on  
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Run Dat Back by Jadagrace on  
"Top 5 artist right now:
1. nothing, nowhere
2. CalenRaps
3. Joji
4. Shinigami
5. Dance Gavin Dance"
        
 Pocahontas:   Do a rain dance or something to keep yourself busy!      Much better than spewing all you 
How many people have friends that can tap dance and play harmonica? I love you Buddy and I hope we're both around f 
Chris Tomlin - God's Great Dance Floor
THE ROYAL FAMILY DANCE CREW ARE INSAAAAANE
Thats a dummy move on me  but its okay tho cause we still str888 over here  i call dat the magic dance
"We are 45 mins into this live stream!

All about HouseMusic

Come and have a dance!

 "
now i know nsu not trying to claim a black family reunion line dance  
 I CAN MAKE HER DANCE TO BITCH LASAGNA
"sir,,,this is a mcdonalds drive thru BUT we will allow you to dancey dance because u look really cute  "
"Indonesian Idol :Agnes Monica American Idol:Elvis PresleyMusic Genre: Rock,Metal, Pop,RnB Dance : Hip Hop, Break DanceNabilahJKT48Profile"
Drinking a Ghost Dance by  - 
"Minha meta de noivo ou KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
Groom Surprises Bride with Best Groomsmen Dance Ever  via "
"back to homecoming, the fact that Beyonce has mastered all of these dance moves is beyond me. DopeAf"
Is it bad that Im just screaming the default dance song walking into Coachella.... bot    
 Who are the artists featured in this morning's dance party? I've heard a song twice this week on your 
 hit me up next time you need a dance partner  
 my i love kaia so much dance. 
  max i dont wanna dance on camera ffs
can't believe twice haven't had a comeback since dance the night away  i'm so excited for fancy
" Exactly! I guess the songs are okay at certain times in ones life, but yeah. Just give me the upbeat club dance songs."
" I didnt say all the dancers at the club were ugly, I said all the ugly girls that have issues with me "
" By d time that track is done, people will till dance like mad"
Watching her dance &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;
dance gavin dance is so fucking good how do they do it
"Dont you have a cult meeting to attend, Mitt -OR-

A chanting session over your buddy Johns grave, -OR-

A lap "
Hey STL folks - this weekend is the Washington University Powwow. Go. Support. Visit. Learn. Meet  - h 
 This dance is so powerful
"  After first listen, I enjoyed most of it. Only songs that DIDNT hit me as hard as the "
COPAS is delighted to sponsor Ajendance and the creative dance arts for young people. 
"So, earlier this week I was invited to start teaching at a studio called Feel the music. I'm so excited. TIME 2 DANCE!!"
"Next Friday Night Vision x The Bower presents BLACK LOOPS (Freerange, Toy Tonics) With early support from Dunmore P "
Now playing The Logical Song by Supertramp music best hits rock pop dance on  
"Dancin With Roxie in the news!  

DWR Prestige heading to 2019 Dance Worlds in one week!  

 "
"I am joy in a wooly coat, come to dance into your life, to make you laugh! dogsarelove"
  Never. Id meditate and dance
"Here are this weeks top three albums on the Top Dance / Electronic Albums chart: 
 Marshmello: Fortnite Extended "
"Hi friends, I love exploring at Disneys Hollywood Studios. I checked out the Incredibles Dance Off, hanging out wi "
Bout to dance your ass to a week 1 L! TitanUp 
 She does the nacho dance
so  it looks like we're playing each other tomorrow. i think that the winner of the series should shmu 
"REGISTER NOW FOR FREE: 

Our Wheelchair Sports Festival April 27th &amp; 28th in Santa Clarita. "
I cant wait to dance at you funeral 
When you sing and dance and your children look at you in pure disgust...I call that winning! 
 I think its brilliant! All those protesters want is a future for our children in a world thats s 
 This coming from a woman who did a bit where she went to a dance studio for a dance class and farted 
 the crab dance video but all of the crabs have been pushed off a cliff
"I really want to find a place to dance Cumbria, merengue and bachata tonight"
I cant give nobody no lap dance or none of that goofy shit cause i play way too much i dont even think i know how to be sexy ...Im a joke
TONIGHT!! Catch me spinning all night at  Mirror Room from 8pm-4am! Friday Night Dance Party &amp; Distort 
What a fun Spring Soire night with our Jazzersisters hosted by Debra Duffey in her lovely home on April 13! Alwa 
" ""yo Riley hit em with that nacho dance"""
THE LIZARD THAT WERE FIGHTING IN THE DANCE HALL  RandomBMovies
 new song or new dance video???
"Mid 80's Bowie, so it is bar time. the bar staff just danced a Fortnite dance at me.
Fucking hell"
Michael English - Will Ya Dance 
  is that you doing your shoulder dance
 is it just me or when ever I hear the song Telephone by Lady Gaga I just picture all the boys attempting to dance 
How do you dance to Billie Eilish??
" When you dance, I can really love, I can really loveeee "
" was a nice fortnite dance presentation, thank you pach, very cool"
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Sumthin' Sumthin' by Maxwell on  
"Lots of playlist love from  today for the  song! dollarmenu 2friends1cup 

Featured "
Ok ok ok salsa is really fun to dance
"Walk, dance, run, ride your bike. Dont stop! This is Bogot, a city that drives you to movement, where standing st "
   Climate change was happening on earth long before we arrived. What do you 
Hey  come and get your Pride Dance tickets in Guidance! 
 They won't dance together.  Have they ever?  I don't think so.
 at first glance i thought he's about to pole dance
"Dance as if dancing brought an end to tyrants, 
As if a war of movement could usher in peace.  dance "
"At 3:45 she does the  ""Right Stuff"" dance ...hmmm, who did it first? This was in '87...

"
  literally wtf calling lisas dance performance boring and jisoos cover for clarity jus 
I just wanna slow dance with u
That last retweet got me in tears... Chris brown is a Great BUT Ive been to his concerts and he cannot sing AND da 
 *she starts to dance all of a sudden*
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Showrocker &amp;40;So so def Remix&amp;41;
 - Bassjackers &amp; The Partysquad Ft. Jermaine Dupri
 "
" Ugh thank for uou hardwprk Jiminie, thank you for your sexy dance ~~ keep healthy for promotion weeks"
i had a dream last night that i went to a random dance class and jordyn and les were there? for some reason? i-
"Nelson  Popping Showcase at Fusion Concept 2014 /  
popping dance showcase dancer solo judge demo"
twice uhhhhhh dance the night away idk 
" RIGHT?! I'm waiting until after we hit zero-day (mostly, because if we have a no spend month next "
dance that shit out.
dance through the pain 
"I wish the camera was pointed at me more, but I like the way the dance turned out! Happy fursuit Friday guys!!  "
 I failed at the dance question bc I didn't know ANY of the songsthis is how much I disconnect from ra 
Serena Vanderwoodsen really said turn this song up and it was Soulja boy and she didnt even do the dance.....
LOSE YOURSELF TO DANCE
"Short promo for our dance concept film T R I U N E 

Link: 

filmmaking dancefilm "
But let there be spaces in your togetherness and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another b 
"Hey its ash, meg is okay and shes oh so happy, she has space buns in and shes ready to dance in factory for free, see u later"
It's Mostly Cloudy &amp; 74F outside. A cloudy day for house !! House mix sets here:  house 
At the end of High School Musical why do the other school sing and dance along to Were All in This Together? They 
"  I sing, I dance, I juggle plates! I also link to samples upon request"
This entire plate look like e does go fete and nuh dance pon no body 
Need a clean version of  new absolute TUNE so I can send to my little cousins I started a personal versio 
Uuuh twice dance the night away??? 
 my school!!! The Southeast Sundancers received the titles of D1 Team Dance National Champions and D1 Overall Ba 
"Never miss any of the fabulous events at The David Hall! Join our newsletter!
 "
Choose to chance the rapids and dare to dance the tides. - Garth Brooks quote 
" Means - ""dance in style forever"""
Im getting decent at dance dance Im fucking dripping with sweat
stop asking mingi to dance I'm begging you i can't take this
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
Beyonc dance kinda corny to me but I like that she dont gotta shake her ass to look good lol
  The IRS has NO record of his corporation. His filings with the state of Florida have no EIN numbe 
"Ready to dance? It's  b2b  next Friday, April 26.

Grab tickets before they sell out: "
nigeria dubai based hushpuppi show off his dance  moves hushpuppi dubailife dubaifashion 
My cousins of my generation are the only ones that cant dance Cumbia but everyone else can 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Rock And Roll Dreams Come Through by Meat Loaf on  
The countdown to VIVID Sydney is on! Btw: Do you have your tickets to the dance floor in the sky? The Vivid Climb - 
Me at a dance call praying they cast me: 
 Someone make this part of Dance Dance Revolution.
"So I created my own Fortnite Lobby Music..!! (Default Dance, Smooth Moves)  va  "
 Sisters from White Christmas. The dance begins
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
Back on the road with the Eagle    Easter on blast  Coming to a city near you 
"Said, ""baby, I just want to dance"""
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np   - Circles Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
"THE CURSE OF LA LLORONA:
Mexico, 1673  Two young boys present their mother (Marisol Ramirez) with a pendant, which "
FOUND IT. In Revisiting Salome's Dance in Medieval and Early Modern Iconology by Barbara Baert 
 Tune you to sing and dance my rythm.
 Listen its true man. Some mic man need to low it. If you aint got a JA passport just be yourself 
Niggas in the street a live that trap life producer by icemanpromo big up me selecta djcardocdfantasy traplife 
Why do dwight folks think every dance came from Fortnite??
"This case brings up some interesting issues about conflicting rights, and the distinctions between public and priva "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Ain't no stopping us now by McFadden &amp; Whitehead on 
Let's go baby and dance now Girls Beautiful by Bullmeister on  
ListenNow on Sophisticated Ape Radio Dance of Life &amp; Death by Ubiquity Rock Blues Jazz Weird 
"Heading back to the club before Top Spoons, who is out for a Dance tonight? "
" But I just can't prove that they were in the VIP section and saw Jon Voight. Also, I can't prove th "
"New Single-Out NOW!
CHECK out THIS double Single Release: ""BADHOUSEMUSIC-Double Deep""  And all Stores! "
"i love having a rolling chair at my desk at work. i be doing these secret, sensual ass dance performances lol"
 U can dance shtop
"Loved being reunited with my Go Dance family &amp; meeting Sims the horse Leif will be dancing for at ""Dancing for the "
I seriously wonder what all the people thought seeing someone dancing so randomly like that xD would this be the ne 
 needs to listen to the new Dance Gavin Dance Artificial Selection album...
guys that speak good spanish and can dance are it.
"   just dance. It'll be ok. 
Lady Gaga at the Trop."
Us doing this song on just dance    
"How can there be 40 songs in one album and theres none i can even dance zanku to.

Sho gun laye ni? "
     It appears Corbett is top of his list but Seb Dance is only second on his.
Cubs Win!!!! Everything is starting to come together!!! Everyone do their Happy Dance!!! Cubs EverybodyIn FlyTheW 
"Join us on 4/20 at 9:00am for a very fun dance, HIIT, and low weights to the beat of a live DJ. Its a fitness clas "
 WOW my baby can dance his ass off boy watching you got me tired
mamamoo focus on their singing because they cant dance you think so? have a look  
"We live and Love
  
..
OmoCharlieChampagne TGIF BBNaija GoodFriday loverlover aimz "
THE DANCE 
Dance for you simplesmente 
I know Im severely out of shape because I was too out of breath to stay on beat in my cardio dance class and redde 
"Everybody get up an dance, we deserve it. 
Dont forget to retweet "
"BIG TROUBLE ON THE DANCE FLOOR  by Atchamb7 (T) 5/?
Rey is the new unknown dancer to Dancing with the Stars and Be "
"Beauty sleeps on the calm dreamy bosom of the ocean, or lives in the dance of its wild waves. - T.C. Henley "
I doubt Chris brown who you ppl swear is one of the greatest performers is in top 40 concert tours. If he was a gre 
Joe Biden will announce his candidacy for President next Wednesday! Doing the happy dance!
 Its FriYAY at morningswithmadge and we have a tasty twofer! Things I Said Yes To and a dance par 
I LOVED learning with Kareem last year at  's festival. I really wanted to return this year (They h 
Someone better dance w me to caught up in the country while I'm drunk at stuckfest
Dance With The Devil - Immortal Technique  via 
Im not surprised Brook did bad in snatch game. She has looks and can dance but she struggles in acting challenges. 
This is worth a retweet. And a happy dance. And maybe even a walk outside. Dare I risk it...? 
What i have really lost ? While my heart stills beats melody another heart dance on
 i asked them to dance to bds but they only did that at another show 
"Jungkook know what's really up with dance monster, and it isn't sorry bae"
For the love of dance   
" Talk bout cringeworthy

Some of these dance routines in these movies are awkward as hell

They need t "
"    Long gone are the days I could dance all night!
Would "
"UGMA is a network of edu, industry &amp; ministry leaders &amp; pros in the arts of Music, Poetry/Spoken Word, Dance, Theatre, &amp; Audio/Visual Arts."
 Another missed opportunity lmao. Oh! That reminds me Im going to a jpop and kpop dance party at the timbre room tonight!
"   The goth night I go to once a month, it's drink, dance, socialise "
") Lou Reed - Sally can't Dance - live in Paris, 1974  via  np"
How clean did Dennis hit the woah? Catch us doing some more dance moves at our next show on April 27th at Batranch 
 I've actually done that dance.
Well I cant dance so I guess Ill be single forever  
 When u find out you can dance even though there is no dance break
    Just gave my first lap dance in a strip club AMA
"This kid is superb,i wish i can dance like this "
 Someone showed him Hamster Dance before he finished typing the second and time ago away from him
"  He was smart this gofundme- he had people transfer their 'wall' donations to his non-profit.

Onl "
 Lets dance de David Bowie
"Cool electro-funky track by &lt; e s c p &gt;.

Free download from: 

royaltyfreemusic freemusic "
was told i need to attend clout college by a vicious young man whom proceeded floss dance in front of my wife
"Michael Jackson ONE. An electrifying fusion of acrobatics, dance and visuals immersing the audience into the world "
"Mystery as some residents hearing dance classics blaring across West Dublin
"
" On the other hand: music and dance! Love ""Soul Train"". If you know what you're looking for in this cli "
Why did taeil do a dance out of nowhere OTL king of fan service indeed 
"Critics Pick: Cage the Elephant Returns, Suspended Between Rowdiness andRegret "
you look like youre afraid of dance floors 
"Prince Igor, Act II: Polovtsian Dance with Chorus ""Slavoy dedam raven khan"" "
 I like our every other game win cycle. Not good for the nerves but I hope we win in double OT then dance 
im making a dance piece for the freshmen in colorguard and im using be alright. im sooo excited yall! they are lear 
we don't have to take our clothes off to have a good time oh no we could dance and party all night and drink some c 
After much gnashing of teeth  beat the snot out of the level. Que the happy Dance      
No matter how many times I watch the Everybody Mad dance break I stay hype af homecoming
"Tonight, I'm taking over  dance floor. Come dance with me! Skate Party in one room, karaoke in the lo "
"We are SO excited take part in this. Almost 100 local performers are joining LA based, Lula Washington Dance Theatr "
"Kerouac's ""On the Road"", re-imagined for our tiny stage!  is pumping us up for (next) weekend with this "
"JiHope AU 

Hoseok is the best dancer on this side of Seoul and the owner of one of the biggest dance studios in to "
"As South Asians, we need more interest in music, art, and dance. Not just chase fields in engineering and medicine. "
not @ us leaving shawn and havana comes on to which we decide to dance around the o2 screaming along send help
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Lotta Love by Nicolette Larson on  
"Listening to Shut Up and Dance by WALK THE MOON, on my Echo!"
"i hope to be successful and happy and independent one day. but more importantly, i hope to be a dance mom."
Learn to dance with your friends! Private group classes available.    
Troye Sivan - DANCE TO THIS 
"Congratulations  to everyone involved in  , especially my on stage daughter  who is sensati "
"     1st they said he only went to take pictures
Now that "
OVE DANCE HOUSE 
"Ignorant frat boys 
FAILED IMMIGRATION REFORM 
FAILED WALL 
FAILED KIM JONG UN 
FAILED HEALTH INSURANCE 
FAILED TAX "
"I watched this video 100 times to learn the dance for Electro World ten years ago, now Perfume performs at Coachell "
Maharshi song Everest Anchuna: Mahesh Babu's smooth dance moves steal the show 
"Second part of Emilia's tough items,  DanceCentral MK8D NintendoSwitch "
Bling Iron on Rhinestones Patterns Just Dance Rhinestone Design forGarment  
Neglia Ballet celebrating 20-years of dance in Buffalo    Dance
"Me: what if I gave up on them too soon?
God in me: what if your the only one that thinks that? 
Also me:  freedom dance"
" Then the guy that starts dancing mocking the girl that started dancing goes,  i dance for all the m "
San didn't dance so well on this day for you to ignore this:( 
guys who can dance are fineeee asf 
Unfollow my annoying ass cuz Im never shutting up about this dance like LOOK AT YOONGI MOVE   
 They Had Better! I shall dance in the streets
Do you love Electronic Dance Music ? Are you looking for new Bangers? Then check out &amp; Follow 
"   Ignorant frat boys 
FAILED IMMIGRATION REFORM 
FAILED WALL 
FAILED KIM "
"Jimmy, performing the basic dance moves which gays have adopted to this very day.
TOTP"
" I knew the dance moves to this video.

I could probably still do a mean chicken head"
"On 4/22/19 join Brontez Purnell and  at the Shawl-Anderson Dance Center in Berkeley.
.........
On 5/3/ "
         
"I danced on a Friday when the sky turned black, its hard to dance with the devil on your back. They buried my "
"Many communities in England have Easter performances of Morris dancing, a traditional type of folk dance dating bac "
Bunny Sigler - By The Way You Dance ( I Knew It Was You ) ( Larry Levan Mix )
"Best rock pop dance music Now Allright, Allright by Mungo Jerry on  "
I want to go to the club and dance.  restless
"TODAY from 6-9 pm, another Disco Sessions HappyHour party with FrankyBoissy. Time to dance!   "
       
  Lemme teach you how to dance zanku
amazing sunsets summer trance uplifting inspiration!  new vocal trance music coming soon!   beachvibes 
 I wrote that smaller amount so that no one can dispute that they used donors' money to go there (it 
 Dance is supposed to be place you go to be safe. The place you go to be happy and get away from the 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Body
 - Loud Luxury Ft. Brando
 "
Im tryin to sing and dance with the loml 
"   you would relate more to this if you searched for ""zanku"" on ig or YouTube... Crazy dance"
  I mean the movie. My favorite is by an actor named Charles Dance. Second favorite is Chaney.
"Raise a glass
Wearing paper hats
To VerseAngel
Life of the party
Dance &amp; decorations
Are just icing on the cake
Gi "
We do the touchdown dance when we get it across 
 my name is sans i do the fortnite dance
" After drinking a bit, Pansy holds out her arms

""Dance with me Arya!"""
    Seriously. How can you point a gun at a child and go home and 
         
"This Weeks Dance Lesson - Sunday, April 21
6:00pm - Open Dance
6:30pm - Line Dance Lesson - Review Sunday
*Request "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np Noga - Keep Calm Dance Soul  HipHop &amp; more. Manchester   
He was the 1st man to dance on a beer mat. totp
not beyonc telling us to dance to her old shit
I missed a dance audition cause of studio and honestly Im tired of missing out on opportunities cuz studio takes up all my time
 we could always dance privately Sean I wouldn't make you dance with me in public teehee 
" AHHHHH, we have thursday night to perfect our dance routine"
just finished HOMECOMING. my future wife needs to be able to dance to get me bodied with me. i love that song so much.
"Drink &amp; dance w/  TONIGHT on the Mezz Bar @ 9PM! supportyourlocaldjs
.
.
ShannonsOnPine "
 Dont make u a homebody if u out busting a sweat on the dance floor lmao
"Seriously though, who wants to dance?"
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Valleys of Neptune by Jimi Hendrix on  
*you're so physical by adam and the ants starts playing* *begins to do a striptease dance above the kitchens table*
"      Shes funny, but she is reall "
How yuh jus a gwone suh? Its di Im so ready fi Breeze Weekend dance  Yes Houston Texas get ready for 3 days o 
I want Dance Gavin Dance to perform at my wedding
"Are you ready to start working toward your Certificate in Dance Education (CiDE)? 

This course is the perfect plac "
UnpredictableMixes On Club107 With   Indamix: A-Star - Kupe Dance
  What next...the 'shake &amp; vac' dance? 
"WHOAWOWWOAAAW STYLES FM COMIN IN HOT AND BOTHERED ON  AT THE TOP OF THE HOUR, THUNDERSTORM THIRSTIN &amp; R "
LOVELAND HAS A DANCE PARTY TONIGHT! 1st time in my own back yard! Hope 2 C my NoCo friends out here  
"NowPlaying Shall We Dance by Block B ( 
"
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration  via 
Am I wrong to assume..if she cant dance then she cant ooo...
A lot of niggas that be out here making these dance videos be stealing my twin moves lmaooo
we just saw the cutest kids having a dance battle while their mom scanned her items.
Excited for the hip hop workshop next week dance vid maybe?
"Claato  
""I was quite psychotic last week, because I thought that the computers an "
Im so proud of her cause I knew how bad she wanted to dance  
"Dance Fridays TONIGHT - Live Salsa with ORQ. ORIGINAL, Bachata with GoodSho, Dance Lessons at 8 - "
"if you really care about a dance THIS much, bitch you a bird  "
gotta watching homecoming again so i can learn how to dance something other than two step
Great day today for many IPSEN employees participating to Challenge against Hunger in Boulogne with 450 other par 
Madhuri elevated the screen with a distinguished performance in TabahHoGaye. Every move portrayed such a mixture o 
yoh but coloured people can dance next level
" Sir, with all due respect, BTS is much more than a good dance. They make music and send good and me "
"""I bet you look good in the dance floor, don't know if you're looking for romance, don't know what you're looking f "
"What in the fuck was that crime motive? I'm going to blackmail a dude, and kill this woman so that I can dance with "
"Now Playing, Breathe Owl Breathe  Last Dance from Ghost Glacier music Rock"
"I didnt expect this to blow up. 
Watch Luhenyang dance on YT!! 
"
nowplaying dance clubbing soul RnB Hypnotize by The Notorious B.I.G. on  
Press play on your radio and let's dance baby Choca by Plan B on  
 When I was choosing clothing and style for my woman persona to dance I was aiming for somewhere between 
"Dont ask me to dance sober, jazz drunk or sober or to play Dominos. Im grand."
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
" Nodding softly she placed her hands on his shoulders

"" Try to breath ok. ""

But the last bit puzzled he "
Bunker Hill - The Girl Cant Dance
" This link explains what his non-profit can do:

"
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
"STOP
imagine the cuteness seeing all of them dancing the ryusoulger ed dance 
i'm already dead "
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
"I feel as a dancer, theres a requirement of films that are needed to be watched. Depending on your preference of dance, ya know..."
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
"Monday all roads will be leading to Busaabala One Love Beach. Let's all meet there. Dance to the tunes of freedom, "
" I am seeing batman89 in theaters for its 30th in a few weeks, and would love to drive to it listening to a re "
Now thats what I call a last disco dance.. totp
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
 Kinda important when folks say they gone dance to it at their weddings lol
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
 Dance the pain away
DJ MIX: Djjoan Dladies Boss  Worship and Dance GospelMix  
trivia: dance is playing fam! a win for hoseok shooters 
"hello folks, what should i wear to dance beneath the moon tn"
Omari hardwick really cant dance oh my goodness
 its my birthday on Sunday! Please play murder on the dance floor
 inspires me to try on really bold makeup looks and outfit and get drunk by myself and dance in my room
 Fortnite dance instructions... 
  They're gonna Fortnite dance in your body kappa
"Favorited ""Global Dance Mission 497 (Tony Smooth)""  by Global Dance Mission"
"Dance Fridays TONIGHT - Live Salsa with ORQ. ORIGINAL, Bachata with GoodSho, Dance Lessons at 8 - "
Im a buff baby but I dance like a man
Is there any girl in this whole damn industry who isnt gonna dance or sing on it 
happy birthday to my favorite human!!! wouldnt want to dance on coyote uglys bar with anyone else  thanks for be 
        
Cant wait to dance away with Carmen in Ggow when Im of age role model!! 
"Coachella 2018: australian dance soloist, Elephant Fire, will take to the Yuma Tent at 9:00 pm on Sunday"
in this house we don't do that anymore bc we loving ourselves and lowkey need an excuse to dance and drink until we 
About to chaperone my first middle school dance. Thoughts and prayers appreciated.
"Sick hearts dance through the air, 
And they've got long gone-off chocolate"
alexa and i will be leaving it on the dance floor tonight
 its my birthday on Sunday! Please play murder on the dance floor
 I haven't heard a ballad in years that didn't seem overly emotional and too dramatic. It's funny beca 
"Just favorited ""Msd.Remixes ... Club Dance Mission Vol.103"" by Msd.Remixes / Michail.D on Mixcloud "
Check out this item in my Etsy shop  dance salsa dress
also im at rooms 606-609 rn for mario kart and dance dance revo come Love me
"When I hear the original (Mr. Sandman) I feel happy and dance to it, but then when I hear the same song again by S "
"I havent seen any dance in a long time and Im disappointed in myself for that, but receiving  Dancele "
"My family is so uneducated about Greek life...

My Aunt: Buck before you leave do that crew dog dance.

Me: "
Forever my fave from them. Dance anyone? XoxoX Te Quero Mucho 
Hoping to be able to spend some time in St Charles IL while we are up north next weekend. Check out the new 
  Do his donors know he can legally donate 49% of the money he's collected to any p 
" When I was five, my ballet teacher had us dance to Aquarius from Hair.  I memorized the whole album "
The Dance by   writerslife Reading poem poetry reads writing 
Dance the Pain away. 
   Dance With My Father
i wish i could dance so baddd lmfao
Black Coffee - We Dance Again (feat. Nakhane Toure)
"Feels like a music kind of evening for my children and I. Listen and dance, oh and sing christian gospal I really "
"Every time Im home and my fianc is out, I try to do the dance routines from Beychella"
"First part of Emilia's tough items,  DanceCentral MK8D NintendoSwitch "
"Be kind to yourself, dear  to our innocent follies. Forget any sounds or touch you knew that did not help you danc "
Best Of 90's Club | Dance | Remixes | Bootleg | Mashup | Retro Megamix 
That special dead ass made me think I could dance
I cant wait to dance to some house music with my bf tonight oof 
 can guarantee you dance better than i do! and he can move too!
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Beija-Flor by Timbalada on  
 Diddy can dance but sometimes he looks comical. His confidence is what helps.
im officially the girl who tried out for dance two years in a row and didnt make it 
Here is Rochester Fire Chief Eric Kerskas  dance for Dancing for the Arts.  Well done Chief! 
Come dance for a good cause  FiestaLatina 
Why can my brain remember a camp dance routine from 2009 but not basic information like my social security number ?????
Can hear loads of shit dance music.  Someone having a party.
SENIOR SPOTLIGHT: Olivia DeVore is a 2 year Charmer and she is one of our Senior Captains. Olivia's favorite thing 
  Its the dance party at the Tomorrowland Rockettower Plaza Stage
People need to learn that a ceilidh is not necessarily a dance! There might not even be an accordion there (god for 
"fairy tale -loona
for life -exo
glow -stray kids
goodbye -2ne1
heaven -ailee
hellevator -stray kids
hope not "
She can sing and dance too 
"  TRUMP CARES ABOUT TRUMP. PERIOD.
FAILED IMMIGRATION REFORM 
FAILED WALL 
FAILED KIM JONG UN 
FAILED HEALTH "
Were soon going to have a Hip Hop routine in Dance and Im expecting the song to be Gasolina by Daddy Yankee. If not Im walking out 
The A.V. Club: Baby Groot briefly transforms the Galaxy (and the Marvel action machine) into one big dance floor. 
 In just a few hours the 150th Episode of LastManStanding airs!! As Mike says from S7 Ep15 They s 
"when i return from Colombia &amp; i still cant dance like this, send me back "
"Easter Sunday Funday!!! Breathwork, SpeedHealing, 5 Rhythms Dance, Meditation, Yoga -  "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino You Might Need Somebody by Shola Ama on  
Loreena McKennitt Huron 'Beltane' Fire Dance - Now Playing 
"Pack your bags: Flight 1701 departs at 10pm
DJ SUN, MELODIC AND FXBOX
International, Funk, HipHop &amp; Dance
$7 frozen "
 I want to receive news that good  Im a Presbyterian so I can dance AND raise a glass! 
        
I Wanna Dance with Sumpbody Watermusic
Who was your first crush?  Honestly it was aang especially when he went nuts and grew his hair out in book 3 kdndk 
"   the Fusion Dance is a Metamoran technique not a Saiyan one, Goku just picked it up while dead"
" "" Davina I really don't dance. "" I looked at her as others danced around us."
"Years &amp; Years - King 
RSI DANCE  
"
Let's go baby and dance now Love Story by Taylor Swift on  
 Dance with me!! 
 When you queue up all the best songs on your playlist while you tan cause you wanna have a dance party o 
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np You Can Call Me Al by Paul Simon on  
  Dance in your chair. Show them what you got. 
" ""Overwhelmed right now, I haven't even had a first dance. 

Say, do you want to be the one who does it w "
If Naina was so smart why did it take her to realise that Aman liked her when in the start he practically did a who 
hoseoks powerful hips reminded of harrys powerful hips and now here we are wishing for a dance cover
"The next generation will still see the moonwalk as an iconic dance step. Please, stop. Thr only regret I have about "
I could write on and on about how chaos and order dance around each other like they're separate entities instead of 
"TRUMP CARES ABOUT TRUMP. PERIOD.
FAILED IMMIGRATION REFORM 
FAILED WALL 
FAILED KIM JONG UN 
FAILED HEALTH INSURANC "
"It's amazing to see where people end up. I went to the dance class of one of the ""Baby Boy"" breakdown backup dancer "
"Not everybody has to think, vote, speak, fuck, joke, dance, pray or look the same way as you to be your friend. Ide "
        
ANNOUNCEMENT!  Girls Night Out returns to  on Saturday 4/27 before the  take on the Colorad 
" ""Hm?""

Her last question caused him to actually pay attention to the questionable dance skills of some p "
 girl how the hell u gonna dance with crutches
Father/Daughter dance my granddaughter... slayed princessmode lafamilia diamonds  ___ebg__ 
 Lezzy Warren wants to do a ritual Native American impeachment dance its very similar to a Rain Dance
Also me: *knows all the words to Dance (A$$) Remix* 
 That dance sesh at the coney entrance we had will be talked about for ages
Do you know a dance teacher that is expecting a baby? Or are you a previous tap dancer? The baby Tap 
"Wishing you and your family an amazing Pesach, from all of us at RHYTHM FIVE. We would also like to take this oppor "
 Girl my dumbass did dance at the back of the cinema 
"Whose ready to dance into the weekend with us?? Join us tomorrow morning at 7:30 or 8:30 for Cardio Funk, 9:30 for "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np What's The Colour Of Money by Hollywood Beyond on  
So I guess the hot dog dance wasnt good enough for these kids huh 
Got that FridayFeeling? Time to dance!   SweetSilentDisco SilentDisco CareHomes 
 I JUST WANNA DRESS UP AND DANCE WITH SOME CUTE BOYS AND GIRLS IS THAT TOO MUCH TO ASK
 Shid i dont dance when its dry... Remember when Bourbon and Canal flooded in NOLA?  fukadance
My agenda: In two hours I may be able to show off the update in the new world and I will dance again on stream.
bts should do the group chat whoa dance thing but instead make it a thread on here
 Baddakam kaadu bhayya. Basically poor planning. Shooting got stretched n very less time for songs shoot 
"
I produced, sang, freestyled, and arranged this one and it's
Just a lonely electro dance "
"but if we talk about sexy, HELLO SEONGHWA WHAT UP CAN U STOP PLS THANKS they actually had a game of who gives the b "
Here are  s amazing characters having an awkward dance party because Im terrible at poses. Ngl these gu 
        Dont you like to dance 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : This Is It
 - Lucky Charmes Ft. Corey Chorus
 "
 Ikr! Like I just wanted to get up and dance  and alia bhaat looked amazing 
   I'm just thankful he's not keepin me up til 4:00 am with his dance move 
"A car just drove by playing an upbeat dance remix of Runaway Train.
So, in short, its official...
We, as a socie "
" Yep, you dance like me, class and style"
What made you laugh recently?  I watched some guy dance to Sexy and I Know It from LMFAO 
Doka Shot did a great job working on this beat for a relatively unknown music producer who deserves most of the cre 
Empty dance card.  A blank dance card.  Nobody on it.  Freeing.  Disappointing maybe.. but that's life.
  Sadiq Khan wants more police...Maybe he's forming a dance group?
Dancing for Peace by   Dance Poetry Peace Life Self
"Save the last dance, Charlies angels, and coyote ugly really some of my favorite movies."
 I did a happy dance in my cubicle when I read the news. Congrats! Celebratory drinks in the neighborhood soon?
I need some dancing lessons because I be acting a fool on the dance floor
"Visit, dine and play with all your favorite storybook characters at the Royal Costume Ball!
 
This fundraising even "
"The ability to dance to a beat, to music is one of our greatest gifts! Use it wherever possible it will always get you through "
love4eva com dance break jazz version maior e melhor
Had a pitcher of Tennessee tea. Now I'm listening to the  album and dancing in the living room in my jamm 
the way jk controlled hoseoks hip movement in mic drop dance break on snl haunts me
" Please tell me this is your celebration dance at the end of episode 9. ""HIT IT"" "
"This is me 10 years ago.

It was a party, i legit spent like 4 hours of the party playing table tennis while everyo "
Im at a school dance thing and Im that one kid ignoring everyone in the corner lmaooo
Guess what. Im older. Come dance while I play. Smile and love and live and stuff. 11:30p tonight Bridge at site1a 
  Let's do a Native American impeachment dance
Oh boy. This is so me and my girlfriend. She loves to dance but I am soooo stiff haha 
"I think I zoned out for a minute... there was a dance at the school, the Corey took the girl to some weird room wit "
  The girlfriend's girlfriends will always stank-eye the new guy. That's just the elabora 
  When tf you seen me dance... lol I dont dance
[First Place] OSU Genesis | LEGENDS Bollywood Dance 2019 | [ Fr...  via  MS 
Anthony Frontino and I need to stop drinking a whole bottle of liquor before the bar. He just sent me a video of us 
"if you dont support FreeBritney youre not a britney fan tbh. we dont care about bops, dance moves, or eras. we "
"BLACKPINK KillThisLove DANCE COVER BY Cheer Pim O  [190462] cheerny14 
 "
Your favorite songs music rock pop dance latino Back Where I Come From by Kenny Chesney on  
 why don't you just dance instead?
please support us! DreamShine dance cover of SHINee ^^ 
"It won't be wrong to assume Igbo girls invented African version of ""twerk"" dance."
 Did she do a war dance before she called for it?   
         Hi 
mercy - my absolute favourite. his little dance during the bridge is just the perfect way to perform it
fallin' all in you - if this doesn't make you want to drop everything and dance and sing until you're out of breath 
Antidarkbluecat Anti-faggot LET'S DANCE ()
 Yes! Do some dance so others can start doing too
it's been almost a year and I'm still not over this dance practise
 She can't dance. No bum. No style 
"       Portsmouth, VA? "
 Anyone mentioning clubs that are OBVIOUSLY dance clubs do not count. The question rightly is about playi 
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np RougeUnit &amp; TheDreamTeam ft Princess - Good 2 U Dance Soul 
"Prayer walks strawberrys crosses ate it at Lucille building after we left....way of the cross,beauty see a dancer "
New tune coming soon kolorkolor by  X   X   get ready to Dance zanku on a dif 
" I couldnt care less if he dances, and neither should any one else. Politicians should be able to l "
No lie Im having a crocs &amp; cumbia dance party on the 26th!  to literally dance in crocs!  crocs have my heart  
"*does sexy dance*
also the cute sangie sprout dont forget i am baby :3 *finger heart* "
"Me and John Boyega need to have a dance off. I mean, Imma win it but still "
        
NCT 127 'Chain' Dance Practice  via 
"Helps with SNSDs choreography &amp; often stays behind after her own practise to help the other members. Tiffany calls her ""Dance Teacher Hyo"""
Conan's Got Dance Moves! 
"Vocal/Dancefloor Banger! BADHOUSEMUSIC/DEEP
&gt;&gt;Counting the Days... &lt;&lt;
Deep House EDM Dance Electro Pop "
lil happy dance because grad announcements are ordered and will be in next week 
Inca Dance is a 1 / 10
SUPER DELUXE  Unseen Viral Video | Vijay Sethupathi Dance With Gayathri...  via 
" This is inside info. The President is feeling cocky. While the dance is going on tomorrow night, he "
"Vocal/Dancefloor Banger! BADHOUSEMUSIC/DEEP
&gt;&gt;Counting the Days... &lt;&lt;
Deep House EDM Dance Electro Pop "
        
  YOU WATCHED SKET DANCE OMG that ones of my all time favorite series  I read the manga and watched the anime
I just had a complete giddy dance nerd out moment watching the trailer for Avengers End Game!!!
They are DRAGGING and reading Miss Sean Grubbs Robishaw FOR. FILTH.
Nothing like finding plates on clearance at Homesense to make me wanna do a happy dance.
" Razzle  Dazzle: A journey into Dance
The Castle
Kenny
Priscilla Queen of the Desert
Strictly Ballroom
Mental"
My brother is whack but my mom hit that fr. She likes this dance  
We're GTG BTS and random dance cover from Bandung. need more support and follow us ^^
He can score screamers from 35 yards but cant dance 
"Miles and Coltrane- ""Fran-Dance"" from Columbia Jazz Masterpieces np"
The Best songs rock pop dance latino np Cherish by Jodeci on  
Now playing Right Here by SWV music best hits rock pop dance on  
Let's go baby and dance now Killing Me Softly by Fugees on  
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Easier Said Than Done (Remix) by Shakatak on  
Loving TOTP I was 16 in 1984 but alarmed to realise I still dance exactly like that.
"  

Cheers. Dance. Flames. 

"
 my dyslexia jumped out I was like what did dance Gavin dance do
"Weight Loss Dance - 
Ariana Grande - Side To Side ft. Nicki Minaj (Dance Fitness with Jessic "
Meet the 6 kick butt  L.A. dance stars who are taking over your IG feed &amp; redefining stardom in the digital age.  
       
 yo bro you ever thought about putting your daughter in dance class?
 as far as i know music shows have a pre-recording so usually they dance and sing at the same time and the 
"Now fancy crazy, dodge everyone's earth. Start to dance and shout ""Oh, Hey, Yeah!"""
they love each other. they make each other happy. they are each others worlds. they fell in love through dance. the 
wanna dance so bad Luis Miguel
  *excited impatient dance*
SaturdayNight party dance Rasta Gumbo is in the house  HalifaxEvents  
"My mom: show ur aunt that dance you did
7year old me: no 
My mom: Ill give you $5 
Me: "
Murdered for performing a dance ritual  lakota sioux INDIGENOUS poc woc 
cant wait to start flying private ^^
"Not SKZ but watched NCT Chain DP bc a friend's share the same bday with me so I thought, a surprise dance gift. I h "
Pee Pee Dance  ThingsIHaventOutgrown 
 We are all here for a good dance move
never really knew that she could dance like this
"  Happy Dance Time! (three seconds later) Ok, that's enough back to streaming.  "
 i will not recognse this negros dance moves until he picks better cotton from the fields to make a better 
Watch the ice on Lake Superior dance today!
Dance Party!!! 
Getting Liz's dinner b4 the dance &amp; I already have my dinner.  feeling happy at Dunkin' Donuts 
Grease is gud movie cuz I like dance
TurnItUp for Fukkk Offf - More Than Friends Dance House Electro  
  Sessions is laughing his butt off and doing a happy dance.
 | The beavers learning an American funky cowboy dance as part of the international evening tonight. 
"*quietly moves over to 
You should ask Captain Drautos to dance, Master Lwen"
       It's h 
   I hope you were productive today. ~~ I couldn't care less that AOC was a bartender. 
 She was in a gg! First under dreamtea and then her current agency shes uploaded a ton of dance stuff sol 
 I'm imagining a version of RHPS that has Bowie in it. He doesn't sing any numbers or dance or do an 
"Before this booming single Who goes der, Dandizzy in recent times have not ceased to be active in the industry. T "
Posted    Our AMAZING Student Council is hosting their 2nd annual Prairieview Dance Marath 
"Omo Inatena Issa Banger 
Link in my bio

Dance AfroBeats DanceVideo Dancer Dancing AfroDance Choreography "
" and he'd do this funny little zig zag dance and we'd laugh and laugh! When you hear the music, think abo "
This lady's voice and looks get me every time. And damn it I cant help but dance every time the song is on. If you 
happy to report that kelis' dance album still bangs 
"Listen  the dance, without pauses! RadioDance"
 I dont no how to fucking dance. This is bullshit 
"    What the fuck is ""rap singing""??? What signature dance moves does she have "
dynamite dance practice when   sbs_mtv
i watching dance moms and broadway baby died and my heart is so sad for abby aw :(((
Come out on Wednesday and watch the legacy of   continue on through the New Initiates of 
"Come on and dance.

____
__(__/
/"
"Axwell - Ingrosso - Kylie Minogue - Salem Al Fakir - Its True (Get Outta My Way) 
1RSIDANCE "
"Slow dance with you 

 "
 A-Pink BUBIBU Dance 
 Put on your red shoes and dance the blues ;-)
Even readers need work nofilter @ Martha Graham Dance Company 
Im just trying to get sloshed and dance
 I doubt Brian is using the money from his towel and pillow sales to fund the wall.
Some woman got up to dance on her own in this pub were in so Careys crying. Ive had enough
If we shall dance we shall dance for the night
City Ballet Ordered to Reinstate Male Dancers Fired Over Inappropriate Texts 
A classic from the Godfather of Dance- Hall Papa U-Roy 420 
Almost wrecked my car trying to dance to Post Malone
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing Day By Day by Shakatak on  
 *presume head banging* she died by attempting to dance and slipping
"Been listening to Rolling Girl and World's End Dance Hall on loop for a while now.

Gotta love songs that never get old."
"En ce moment sur HITS AND DANCE :  LEWIS CAPALDI -  Someone You Loved 
Ecoutez nous sur : "
fabo would smoke yonce in a dance battle thats facts
Carla Walker was kidnapped when she and her high school sweetheart stopped in the parking lot of a Fort Worth bowli 
WhatsApp group discussing whether it's appropriate to dance on Good Friday is my least favourite WhatsApp group.
I made Zack dance with me in a chevron parking lot at 11pm while waiting for AAA 
Dance battle  
I bet you look good on the dance floor
"another awesome Rocky Horror sing/dance/dress-along
this time at  Bio Rex, which worked surprisingly "
    Don't hold your breath. Here's all brians scams in one pl 
  Spring cleaning (my closet) because it is looking crazy!  Definitely a great opportunity 
I DONT DANCE BUT I MAKE MOVES
"Guys me &amp; my brother have been summoned to the sitting room to dance.
Im fewming "
I cannot handle how much i love this song it just came out and I've listened to it so many times and will def play 
  Dance or what?
We partyin today *default dance* 
Let's go baby and dance now Sugar by Robin Schulz Feat. Francesco Yates on  
" ""Ah don't dance. But, sparkin' up bar fights? Yes. Usin' th' bar counter as a skull-crashin' tool? "
"piano is a miracle, music is a miracle, dance is a miracle, bts are a miracle. art is a miracle. the sky is a mirac "
KEYTALKMONSTER DANCE 
I got out of a dance class and a group of college boys were walking by and one of them looked at me and said Your 
Ill dance to any music if Im eating good food
Just did the Agadoo dance in the living room and  is disgusted totp84
" You never, ever listen to us. You just do your little political song, dance and stomp and we citizens "
my hidden talent is that im really good at dance dance revolution and ive been waiting for years to go on an arca 
"Why you shouldn't say ""ceilidh"" when you mean a ""ceilidh dance"". "
   when the dance offs start in pop world
Just Dance Greatest Hits [MULTI][Region Free][XDG2][iCON] XBOX360 
  Stick to chucking Teresa may around the dance floor you cabbage
When you are married to a dance teacher and you are in Las Vegas at Viva Las Vegas rockabilly festival you realise 
If you could do any dance on Strictly what would it be and to what song  Probably jive or Charleston cos I would h 
" ...if he asks..then fine. Otherwise, I won't. A man of size doesn't...dance well."
OMG!!! Here We Go Again.. Another Dance Craze Sweeping The Internet... JINYUS - JOIN IN   reggae reggaemusic
"S/O To  thetkover For Having me. It was a blast.  

DJKiddB Vegas ClubKillers Dance Club DJ "
 That was dominating my mind. Also questions about how choreographers can possibly imagine in their h 
Does anyone think obsessively about the Spanish Flamenco dance teacher scene in Happy Go Lucky or is it just me? 
"  45, TAKING OVER THE CORRUPT/CORRUPTION WASHINGTON DC *DANCE FLOOR*

""DANCING ALL THE WAY TO "
Plus on my last night on set I got to dance to my favorite Kate Bush songs between set-ups. And watch  
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np MoreRockers - Rainbows  Dance Soul  HipHop &amp; more. 
"I want to feel the grass between the toes, I want to wear jeans, I want to dance!"
"Tonight:
Dog Pound dance party 
DJs Jim Frick / Madre / 
Elysium Alps / Berndt
$3. 21+."
    I'd like to see those assholes come into Philadelphia or ano 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Savages
 - Sunnery James &amp; Ryan Marciano, Bruno Martini Ft. Mayra
 "
80s Funk Dance Music James Ingram Yah Mo B There 
"You ALREADY KNOW!!!
SAT 4/20
SHOWTIME 9PM
See you on the Dance Floor!
Come to Eat-Drink-Dance-Boogie &amp; REPEAT  (In "
makeafilmorsongdrunk I Do Wanna Dance 
Music moves you even when you dont want to dance 
" How did he go from standing up &amp; dancing to being obsessed with cell phones? I go to A LOT of concerts, g "
"this dance move makes them look 1000x more attractive,,, ughH "
Dance on em OG. 
"Janice Dempsey feat Danny Pickering - Let's Dance .   smoothjazzsouthflorida
"
"I was born in Qingdao and when I turned 10, I started attending the Beijing Dance Academy where I learned all sorts "
"Join Claudine Castro's Latin Dance Party every Friday Night at Roxy's Lounge! Bring your dancing shoes, it starts a "
Now playing Van Halen - Dance The Night Away on Classic Rock 109. 
"For some, Courtney's time on the show goes well beyond dance.
"
hit the money dance like wooh
Steal every heart from the boys that you're touching and dance until the lights go down
"My rating for Kalank is 6/10 overall. I would say visuals get 6, dance gets 8 (First Class and Tabaah impress me), "
 dance battle?? 
 ive been highkey mia on twt bc of dance BUT HAIIIIII 
"     Fred, no one is in melt down other than you &amp; Eric. Obvi "
Theres a strong chance to Tevin Campbell Can We Talk will be the first dance at my wedding.
 Put yourself in his shoes. You could go to any Division 1 program. Are you going to go to a progra 
 Play Persona really loud and dance to it lmao
  I might be to old to floss dance but I can drink this! 
Just finished ZERO again. And again found it tearing at my heart like the first time seeing it. The dance to comple 
Disco night in San Diego. Let these bats dance. LetsGoStreaking JoeyStillBangs BorntoBaseball 
"Come out and dance! HHSRDM2019
 
 "
"Brand new mix for your dancing feet from our boy DJ TwisT! 
housemusic dj music bassheads edm party dance "
Check out the ice on Lake Superior dance today! 
"Havana Nights Prom Court!!! Have you gotten your tickets yet? Dance, Food,Music, Photos and more!!!  @ Stone "
"  If it's ""having fun"" to flip bats all the time, why stop there?  Every time a batter gets on "
"this coconut headass tryna dance rn uhhh just nod and smile yall...anyways 30 minutes left!!
ManushBirthdayLockdown "
Smoeds dance gets me SO hype
THE LUPAT CAST IS GOING TO DANCE THE RYUSOULGER DANCE SSKXKEFLDLCLDCLGHWJDKGLEKFFLHLEKFKELGTGJLSKFOHH 
 My dad was on the committee that booked them for a Port Sunlight dance. He didn't go....
 You need to see the dance moves I have in my brain
"DAM Xploit is group of boys and girls age 5-27yrs,they are located in Lagos with so much great talent in Dance,Acti "
Friday mood Get out and dance today! 
Make Time To Dance Alone
"If you like electronic dance music and you've never listened to arty and ilan bluestone, try them out. They never disappoint."
my wife is headed out for the evening which means i'll be eating either taco bell or pizza rolls for dinner and dri 
"Classic selections from Norway's underground scene 
"
Life is not about waiting for the storms to pass...it's about learning to dance in the rain.~Vivian Greene 
DANCE. SING. ACT. LAUGH. Lads &amp; Lashes is a unique fundraising event that seeks to stretch boundaries and explore d 
"Cassie Hayes briefs the Spring Ball, hosted by the William Jewell Ballroom Dance Team April 8. Read her article her "
Best rock pop dance music Now Men In Black by Will Smith on  
"Pro-tip: when writing a 30 page research paper, make sure to factor 5-minute dance breaks every 4 hours. It will st "
Today's Dance YouTube Video Marshmello's Silence (feat. Khalid) 
"Tomorrow! April 20th
 at Los Globos w/ 

Doors at 6pm | 18+
Dont wait! Get your tickets today "
FRI 4/26 :: Join the party as Black Garter Revue presents a Heroes &amp; Villains burlesque show (21+) followed by a la 
Don't miss Boston's only 18+ Dance Party!  Afropulse Presents: The Ultimate AfroBeat Dance Party at 
BLACKPINK - '(BOOMBAYAH)' DANCE PRACTICE VIDEO  via 
  When did he last go to a concert?  Hes surprised people were standing thru the whole concer 
"Oh.......dear........God...........Agadoo by Black Lace, the worst song EVER!!!! And that annoying 'dance' that goe "
" oh goodness, I guess it made ur dance more dramatic !!! ..right ??"
*lil dance party rn* 
"   Aw shit I cant believe I missed this!!! Woulda loved to see your reaction, "
"I have a feeling theres going to be at least two dance breaks, the song is only 2 minutes long and the way she wor "
Thanks everyone that come out to support nlc dance last we appreciate it 
Learning the dance moves before the concert  Dionysus  
 This is difficult. Seb Dance is on my constituency list and I want him to return to the European P 
 Really? After a gift of operation  python dance.....
": Transport by 
: 
Alex is from Russia. His bboy style is crushing it! Hes not your avera "
I wish i could dance lol
"Dont miss this House/Dance Banger! (BADHOUSEMUSIC)
Listen 
&gt;&gt;Counting the Days... &lt;&lt;
Deep House EDM "
 You all see a classy dino doing a dance... i see this 
The Heima's Love Me Again Routine Is Explosive - World of Dance 2019 (...  via 
The Heima's Love Me Again Routine Is Explosive - World of Dance 2019 (Sneak Peek) 
"Nervous about my weigh in tomorrow at   Ive not had the best week, but Im really hoping for a 2lb "
"Y'all know the deal: It's Friday. Say ""Hi"" to your friends &amp; loved ones. Go out for a drink (or not!). Dance naked "
a smoothie and a dance party to the voice of a QUEEN for lunch
 MY MANS KILLING ON THE DANCE FLOOR 
"A 2hr FaceTime conversation with my bestie in the UK.
Since we last spoke shed met a man on a dance floor... but "
First dance class or session since 2007 and man on man I missed it! I was rusty and outta shape but I didnt do hal 
"WHLPlayoffs PAvsEDM:   make another trip to the East Final, first since 2014.  In 12 years of existen "
IT'S A DANCE OFF!!!  
  but super junior can all dance taeils only 30 and he can barely move his joints 
Dance for you &amp; halo lmao 
 My dogs do that excited happy dance also. Love it.
"Lord of the Dance, the bestselling paperback about life in India with guru Sai Baba, is in the Kindle store. "
 Dance with the one that brought ya. -my ex step dad
"We dance seduction behind the tool shed,         
breathless in our growing state of nakedness,         
fireflies "
  From a 2014 youtube video that was a dance at apparently lol daily dot did an article on it
Swan Courtship Dance (I'm guessing)  via 
My future wife is going to be mad confused when the Dj starts playing march madness for our first dance and not the 
"""Ivanka, who wore a $595 white shirt dress for the occasion...""

From your Never Biased Media... "
"   Lol! I had the same thought, it was an engagement right? In the dance wasnt it?!"
"until the day crack brown can fly down 14 steps of stairs on beat, bust out operatic vocals, dance AND sing w out s "
Thanks everyone that come to support nlc dance last night we appreciate it 
 and I practising dance routines in our bedroom 15 years ago  
"thank you for this amazing leg of the tour, for making me cry, scream, dance, smile. truly meant so much to see you "
Let's go baby and dance now The Lift by Comatrixx on 
"Wendy Traskos, the founder of the U.S. Pole Dance Championship: Theres no G-strings, no nudity, nothing like that "
        
 They dont wanna see us with the fusion dance 
"we know chris finna dance his ass off, so nicki better step out with some choreo. "
The bored girl in the beret doing a half-arsed dance &lt;3 totp
"[U-kwon] Likes the anime One Peace , Can dance while beat boxing , Cleans the most"
 He's always topless doing an awkward dance/shimmey
  Such a great idea. I watched the final last year and was glad to come across it again t 
Bachata with Matt and Kayli tonight at 8pm! adultdance adultdanceclasses dance bachata tacomamoves 
"ngl slave to the rhythm is one of my FAV michael jackson songs, when i hear that bop i immediately have to get up a "
Breakin class tonight with  at 6pm! adultdance dance breakin breakdance breakdancer 
" ""What kind of dance break am I gonna do when I get my title back?"""
he literally made ... the most aggressive dance ... so fucking soft we-  
"Fresno State Aztec Dance Club, the Raging Grannies, and Hmong BBoys to Perform at CelebrationEvent "
"Musical Theater - STARTING MAY 11TH FROM 10:30AM-1:30PM Learn one dance combination each week, song preparation/voc "
 new dance video??? i can't wait 
Dance With the Dead - Salem 
"favourite dance and strictly that wasnt joannes, any series  I have three main ones that came to mind straight a "
adding this to my routine next time we drunk dance battle  
Dance Honey Badger... Dance.... 
 wanna dance?
 MJ made his dance moves POP he took alot of his favourite artists moves and created his own master p 
 Happy Dance! Thanks for the moment! 
WALK THE MOON - Shut Up and Dance (Official Video)  via 
 I loved that you dance when you blend in.
"Im the type that will:

Eat your food when your sleeping
Dance when Everyone is quiet
Hear typing from my room
Slam "
" Lyric: *goes in the portal*

Music: Ok *walk in to the portal*

Dance: *runs after Music into the portal*"
UVM to offer major in dance this fall following studio overhaul 
Not formally. But it was incorporated into dance and cheer and I did both of those. 
"Listen to me sing ""I Hope You Dance"" on Smule: "
" That, dance off aside, was worst episode I've seen. Went off to do washing up half way through runway."
   Richard is amazing in many aspects. I really love his dance moves .
"  Omg  Son, go ask that broad over there if she wants to dance with me"
At one of the kids dance show last nite  lakemaryhighschool danceteams 
Could sit with the dance girls all night
Ivanka Trump shows off her dance moves during Ivory Coast celebration 
Now playing  |[  ] - Jump around and dance on Deepstuff Radio 2 listen now on 
"Chapter names so far:

1. Night in Titan City
2. A Hero Must Choose
3. When All Hope Seems Lost
4. Virtue From the "
electronic dance theme  via 
 Ill send you my private fortnite dance videos  (theyre private because Im naked)
Dance group needed in Chicago and Atlanta please inbox
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  ft   - Wait For You 
"Just cause were both girls doesnt give you permission to dance on me, touch my ass, or titties. Yall bitches too "
DO NOT make fun of the way I nae nae its my peoples traditional dance and I am VERY self conscious about the way I look while doing it
"""Dance is the hidden language of the soul of the body."" 

-Martha Graham"
bet when simon says come on before the concert imma dance it
Had a blast at the  ILEARN Kick-Off Dance! DecaturProud dontstressjustdoyourbest
"  Yellow dungarees and Rainbow, who wouldn't sing and dance! Well I certainly did, but "
 Dear Writers: Please have Jamie sword dance at the Gathering in S5! Please!
Maybe even come up with a new cry song for some crying choreography dance for you 
"&gt;&gt;

i like you Dance practice

  

. "
 I think he always had massive twat tendencies! Says me who is recognising half my wardrobe &amp; dance moves on TOTP
All classic hits music pop rock dance now playing T.S.O.P. by M.F.S.B. on 
This young man trying to look and dance like  is worth watching! What say  did he match th 
 Latino Music Lab EP.19 Featuring headlinermusicclub own  Now Available on itunes googleplaym 
 Happy Easter!
Been working on this for awhile - finally its out! Reminisce - a dance-poetry video! My heart is full  
"  Please tell me they are all celibate.
Not because I think its an essential discip "
"Inside the influential dance label, , on its 20th anniversary  "
"no one:
egirl at kpop random dance: "
"In September 2007, Song was spotted by a SM agent at a Beijing dance competition and later joined the company."
Ex-Dance Gavin Dance Frontman Kurt Travis Streams New Song  
" Even if Lyn did say ""retarded"", it's hardly something that deserves this kind of attention. ""Retarde "
"

5th Toronto International Dance Festival - 5. sezona 29. epizoda

Academy of Serbian Folk "
"  And sang the song. ""I was right and you were wrong, I get to sing the 'I was right song'"" accompanied with a dance"
 This was me two weeks ago. Igbo dance steps cured my stiff shoulders by force.
A week today I will be on the dance floor celebrating with my friends and family. Because Ill be married to 
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Make It Right
 - Lucas &amp; Steve
 "
"Saturday are kpop dance cover legends 
"
Looks like the 28/4 and 5/5 episodes of Ryusoulger will have the Lupato cast doing the ending dance! 
That dance off in the newest episode of ru paul holy
"Wear Italian, eat French, start up American, dance Cuban, be Mexican.-"
Easter Egg Hunt Lift: and a Dance Battle TKO by  
remember when that first video of blackpink came out of them dancing predebut and everyone was like they really ca 
"Watching  and  piece on ASMR. ""Here's one of the leading scientists studying ASMR... so we deci "
I want to pay good money for an exercise class where I am taught a Beyonc dance routine. Like a 2-3 times a week f 
either zay gone or he just cant dance  
Happy Friday Dancers! Join us tonight for our Pre-Bronze Group Class at 7:00pm!  AMCG ArthurMurrayCoralGables 
  Dance for two  me don tire 
  Your dancing is..... unique.  You're still cute though. I'll dance with you... 
I will dance in the street! 
80s Funk Dance Music Gwen Guthrie I Should Have Been You 
"kkkkk joanne em bad, john wayne no ok e beautiful dirty rich e just dance em good "
"Miami Lakes !  with  

dance fun drinks chill r&amp;b hiphop funky experimental "
"    They paid $15,000 for those tickets. They were in the VIP "
 Think that little dude gives dance lessons? I could use some help!
It has come to getting happy and wrung out by the optimistic 90s Dance Anthems playlist on Amazon Music. 
 You are creative... How many dance moves did you combine in 30 second
"The weekend is here! No more work to fear, so steer your party mind to the end of the dance line! Its THE CUCKOO "
"STAR-E 5th Anniversary- Dance Cover Competition 'The Colour of K-pop' 
13 November 2016 
Coverdancecompetition
"
"God damn, I have to like....  actually dress fancy for a dance today...

F"
"    Let's see hmmmm 

Bootylicious is in the dictionary

Changed album "
Im doing the moves lazily and not as fast or properly when will I learn how 2 dance
 Yayyyyyyy dance party time
"If you've got a skeleton in your closet, 
people will pay money to see it dance."
"I wanna sing, I wanna dance
I wanna feel love inside my hands again
I just wanna feel beautiful"
"I wish I could sing, dance, or just have talent. sigh"
" Party like a Brazilian, stay safe !!! cheersTGIF
party music love dj instagood fun hiphop "
"Her music never fails to make you want to dance, smile, feel confident &amp; carefree to just fool around and feel the "
"    It's all a damn game to them.
They don't see humanity, they s "
If we cant dance to I Feel Love by Donna Summer together then you not the one for me
 Lets do the dance on Dolphy day
"  Awwww so he can dance then, why is he afraid to dance if everyone says he really knows h "
" When I was a kid, and honestly still to this day, my favorite characters 2 play as in lego sw was jar jar "
"Hey  you need to do a whole music/ dance video for this, thanks. Asking for myself  "
  Agree mate but fuck thon boy can dance 
"Note to NFL/team PR people: If any of you want to try this approach, we will chew you up, spit you out and dance on "
" Plus, your blood/alcohol level goes down, as does your speed, while your intelligence and ability to dan "
"  Looking forward to seeing you in Bognor
1. Sweet Caroline
2. Shut Up and dance with me
3. "
 Those friemds that advised her to leave him will still come &amp; wine &amp; dance with her ooooo!
 And then dance!
 Jisoo because not only does she dance she has to sing and shes always stable
  Thanks. We can now dance in the streets like your officers the other night
Theres a lot of fellas dancing like nans too. Not that nans dance badly. Its just that kinda Tina Turner shuffle post hip op.
Magic Mirror Dance Audition  via  GoodFriday FridayFeeling audition dance blackleotard throwbackfriday
"Facts:

 is brilliant in S2 Ep. 13, ""Tomorrow....""

 did phenomenal editing! "
I am sickened at the extent and pervasiveness of dishonesty and misdirection by individuals in the highest office 
"Footbath on the dance floor, reminds me baby of you. WaterMusic"
My bodys doin the default dance
"You did. 

Go dance with them. 

Crowe is out there. She looks like her mother in that dress. "
Chicago Dance Supply will be closed Sunday April 21. Hoppy Easter to all of our CDS customers!! 
 Wanna dance papi?
"Odyssee Of Noises   Fire Dance Amitrix Remix 2019
 "
"Wendy Traskos, the founder of the U.S. Pole Dance Championship: Theres no G-strings, no nudity, nothing like that "
" scott, you played a new dance track on your show yesterday. What was it called again? In your words ""disco disco"""
 hardworking mindset and his true love for dance.
I'm going to a  concert by myself tonight and I really miss having my best friends live in the same city 
"Having a dance with  

Credit   on instagram 

odysseylive tt30 "
Dance with moonlight()
"Dance with the devil long enough his bound to step on your feet....
Superfly
TheAmericanDream
WKND"
Me at any dance call when they ask you to improv 
[Fight] Sabre Dance / A.Khachaturian / KEYBOARDMANIA 2ndMIX
" Sit this one out.  Your dance card is a bit full.  Oh, and I can't stress this enough, no one cares what you think."
someone please go out to a club with me tonight or something im going stir crazy and need to have fun and dance and just be drunk 
 I want the dance cover ! uwu
"""I always dreamed of being in a talent show, I would get up there and tap dance!""  "
I wish I had rhythm to dance
"Let's go baby and dance now All I Gave 2 U (Eric Smax Ultraschall Mix) by Lane Cryspo, DJ Delicious &amp; Eric Smax on "
HEY LA TRANSPLANTS... Look Atlanta is popping go take your dance/acting/influencing dreams there and get the fuck o 
Lucia doing her Moana dance  @ Banff National Perk 
"*at lunch*
Friend 1: have you seen Come From Away?
2: No.
3: It won a Tony best musical!
Me: Nope. It was robbed.
2 "
" Great choices &amp; this is sincerely difficult. It is really an ensemble show. If I have to choose, the ol "
"If you dance I'll dance
And if you don't I'll dance anyway"
Indian traditional dance for Istanbul audiences  DailySabah  
If I were a stripper 6 inch would be mf song to dance to
i will make a thread tomorrow when i'm on the train uwu and upload more videos!! i have almost the whole  sexy dance challenge recorded
"Tonight DJ Jax is packing the dance floor for Latin Social Night!
11 PM  2 AM | No Cover | Drink Specials "
"   In the words of  to me on here ""I DANCE BETTER THAN JAMES!"" You t "
"Pats manager was asked if he had any sympathy for  No, none whatsoeversurprised by that response, "
Odyssee Of Noises   Fire Dance Amitrix Remix 2019  via 
"  Gimme a go, Ill dance about for 1 mil!?"
    They are also using those videos to raise money to build the 
 Nah same though. Wish I wasnt a social retard. It can suck sometimes. Lastnight it took me a while to n 
"Life is a dance, you learn as you go. Sometimes you lead and sometimes you follow. Don't worry that you don't know, you learn as you go. "
"can we go, before I turn to dust?
My darling theres a place for us.
Darling. Cmon will you dance,
My darling?
Th "
" NEW VIDEO! 

Irish dance makeup for my girls with pink dresses! 



irishdance "
Nothing can beat watching my girlfriend dance to Britney Spears while drunk. Funniest shit ever!
        
"  I have no knowledge of French music, but heres a fine British Music Icon with one for the "
pick your poison: 00s dance movies
Because you made us dance like maniacs last weekend AND I LOVED IT 
  I love this photo
HAPPY FRI-YAYYYY!!!  Ive been challenging myself to dance more often &amp; take vids this year!  Its cray cray to 
Dance hard laugh more TUEN THE MUSIC UP NOW 
Now Playing: Nijel - Dance So Fine | 80s disco funk radio nowplaying  |  [[[[[   TUNE IN: 
"same here. love paramore with all my heart.
when hard times was released i listened to it in repeat for a couple of "
The thicc women of Beyoncs HOMECOMING is a reminder that everyBODY can dance...oh and also BlackExcellence but yall ready knew that.
" Beyonc comes on stage with costumes, wigs, same repetitive and void of energy dance moves, hundreds of "
"  Blast music and dance around?

Thats pretty much how I walk and drive."
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np  - Paul Scholes Dance Soul HipHop &amp; more. 
I just wanna listen to Kacey Musgraves and dance around my room all day
Trying to do the fortnight dance.....pretty hard
if you dont physically fight your sibling then have a random dance party an hour later then wyd?
 lol no mom!! its just a dance move  dad just adds extra attitude
  Not saying invade? What are you saying? You never seem to actually say anything and dance arou 
Continuing on from an earlier post: Costumed bears are forced to dance and perform leap-frogs in front of shocked t 
 I hope Amir gets pumped tomorrow night and we get to see his funky chicken dance again
Theres just something about Beyoncs songs that make you want to dance
"Just made my first dance song, and it slaps for a meme "
"When we skillfully allow colors, mediums, textures have their own way and dance as they wish, we experience effortl "
"They paid WAY more than that. They sat in the VIP section with celebs- $15,000 - $20,000 a ticket. They also charte "
"Flo Rida ""Low"" Official Music Video - Step Up 2 The Streets (2008 Movie)  via 
Still "
    And I'm still waiting for both you and Jen to address this 
"Bolshoi Theatre, 25th Anniversary Gold Mask Awards

Ekaterina Krysanova accepts the Gold Mask Award for Ballet and "
"""So... which one is my dance partner? You? Or you? Or is it you? Yeah... I guess so. Well, since I really can't cho "
This was great teaching. I'm ready to take these moves to the dance floor. 
  Just Wow - a dance ignoramus but  educated a bit by the women in my life -  watched 
Its honestly so sweet though. Like who gets asked to go to a dance class together?!? Like how do you say no to that. 
 Like what kinda dance???
" Attending Parents weekend @ Principia College in Elsah Illinois.
College senior daughters dance p "
"Ooh, how exciting, the website for my second novel (Dance Your Way to Psychic Sex) has been broken for _ages_, but "
"How easily it seemed
you slipped into another life,
as if it were familiar to you,
a practiced dance that I
was una "
"Im just trying to tell you guys; its a concert where the performers both sing AND dance, all of their songs!  m "
sansa just took a sip of my vodka. shes doing a worm dance now. should i be concerned?
"Share gratitude: count your blessings, express your joy, &amp; do a happy dance.
HappyDance ThankfulThursday Joy "
" Hm? I don't dance, he knows that. I'll sit right here and watch people instead."
Dance with me Titus!
May I have this dance m'lady? *Tips fedora*  Am I a pretty lady~? 
okay soooo i just looked in the mirror and i can see why that nigga asked me where i dance at lmao this ass is FATTTT 
 this ismy im gonnashow noah around ikea dance 
This performance  was on Sixtieth anniversary of the creation of the school. This was in 201 
Random dance  
Everyone watch my dance crew's  livestream on  in a few minutes! :3
"Life's a Beach   
Would you want to DJ, Dance, or Relax here?   
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
beachdj "
rock pop dance latio music 24/7 np Here You Come Again by Dolly Parton on  
Some screenshots from last week's Dance Party! The teams were Rainbow and Black/White. We got some surprisingly goo 
"Titus, no cake or drinks until you dance a little."
Michael  of the Times gets the scoop on the mandatory reinstatement of two male dancers at New York Cit 
Someone asked me to dance in France and I was totally took back and I feel like thats a very gentleman like thing 
Let's go baby and dance now Get Low by Dillon Francis &amp; DJ Snake on  
And I know butterfly came out in February but I was just. Watching the dance practice again
"natsu standing forlornly in the middle of the ring as the oedo tai theme plays on, and she's not allowed to dance...  stardom"
This is deeply disappointing 
dionysus is best heard in my car driving around with it at full blast with me trying to dance while driving
 Chin up!  We'll all do a magnificent victory dance when  wins the VoteBlue2020 Pre 
   Our police dance &amp; skateboard with the demonstrators. Just seen the news re 
"A dad called a Valentine's Day father-daughter dance 'creepy' and 'romantic,' sparking a heated discussion online "
I have the dance team lineup complete uwu 
Listen hits music rock pop dance now playing: Welcome To The Pleasuredome (Fruitness Mix) by Frankie Goes To Hollyw 
Who wants to can see me and my group be silly whilst doing a random dance on  
  Would do a good River Dance though.
" You should ask young Lwen to dance, Captain. He keeps sneaking glances"
Its been confirmed! The Elite Ladies Afro Beat Dance Group will perform with bethanque at the 3rd Annual Taste of 
"So many dance pictures to post! Get reach for overload!   Can I just say, GORGEOUS!  Thanks for coming to Gown "
"I do not know air
I do not see a leaf
The only thing I see
A universal dance in front of me

Dance"
 ppl who are in a kpop dance group at FALLS CHURCH are not popular
Our romance heir candidate is driving me freaking crazy going into aspiration failure.  Why do they have to have su 
Buff baby but I dance like a man
 name another mf who dance like me
GOOD TIMES! Ivanka shows off dance moves in Africa; Trades laughs and kisses with locals... 
NowPlaying on Cogent Radio Wang Chung - Dance Hall Days (Orchestral Version)
"microphooooneeee to my ***** 
broadcast the boom boom boom boom
and make em all dance to it "
hets arent allowed to dance. 
These dance practices are too hard Im going to cry
This ain't no milly rock this a money dance. 
 You say that like drunk Maynard doesnt already wanna dance
Immortal Technique - Dance with the devil
This guy is in the dressing room at Tjmaxx bumping 80s dance music and Im all for it  Im waiting to see if he co 
Bruh Larissa dance as bad as me 
"  Arts funding, including at foundation levels, are absolutely essential if we dont want e "
ALL I WANT IS SMTH NEW SOMETHING I CAN HOLD ON TO I DONT WANNA TALK I JUST WANNA DANCE CATCH ME IF YOU CAN
" ""-the camera starts and the beat starts playing as I dance and Katy Perry starts singing-"""
Hey beautiful people! My website  is alive and kicking and I want the world to know!! (*cue 
" Lmaooooo girl I dance to any and everything when Im alone. Just now when I tweeted that, I was twe "
Excited to share the latest addition to my etsy shop: Colorful Dragonfly Dance Key Ring In Silver Setting 25mm Rou 
"NO MORE TAX-FUNDED ""GENDER STUDIES"" and ""LESBIAN DANCE THEORY"" DEGREES! "
gotta turn the world into your dance floor
LOVE dance? We're hiring!  
Genesis - I can't dance (1991) 
    Guys just block this loser I am pretty sure he is b 
I could listen to dance hall and trap for the rest of my life and not miss the other genres
Dance a little 
Roots Reggae Dance 
The best Disco hiphop reggaeton electro music np Power of American Natives by Dance 2 Trance on 
Always greatest hits classic pop dance rock On the Beat by B.B. &amp; Q. Band on 
Dance For Me - Tory Lanez ft NAV Radio Music Live NP HipHop Pop Rap 
Jason Mraz - Might As Well Dance (Official Video)  via 
"( . . .  udte chr) Tiffany by KWAYE 

1 room, Infinite melodies, routine dance breaks, deep convos, cou "
" Just like one song ""The Dance of Darkness"""
" Paint, dance, learn sth new"
Hoop students looking amazing  mbrzds embracebeauties fitness dance aerialhoop oc dtsa strengthtraining 
"{Now he's sat watching everyone have fun. He definitely doesn't dance, and you're not gonna make him}"
    That's a stupid lie. The man who has nothing to eat has his body and the 
"UH OH! down goes dom!

got him with the ol look up at the sky and stand still test and cuzzie went backpedaling l "
If he gets horny while you guys dance hes for sure straight and feeling you -Cesar 
  How about a happy kitty dance? 
Lemme get ready to teach this praise dance for Sunday.
 Isnt it difficult to do the time warp dance while baking? I think you would get flour everywhere.
"It's a rainy, dance in the kitchen to 80's dance music kinda day. 
Not doing precise 2:1 today. I tripped yesterday "
And I think I wanna dance with you
Flight update: I almost hit a man with my luggage trying to get it into the overhead bin. BUT when I walked on the 
I have my ice dance and field moves test in 3 weeks and Im not ready 
"Yep, thats my child doing the loser dance at people in the hotel restaurant! "
"[VID] BOYFRIEND - ""WITCH"" dance practice (Zoom In &amp; Out ver.) "
The Friday Afternoon Dance Party is on the way with  &amp;  Roll your windows down and 
" They don't teach them confiscation skills on these new degrees clearly. Must teach them ""just dance"" on "
   Thanks! Yup thats shantae in some poses I stole from a 1MILLION dance studio video
i have a dance party alone in my room before i edit any video and it gets me PUMPED
when im at home revising i have to have dance breaks 
 Tutting is a dance style
" Webuildthewall is claiming they have secured land to ""build the wall"" but they cannot tell the donors where "
 &gt;&gt; LIVE &gt;&gt; Snowman np MamaMystique - Tremendous Dance Soul  HipHop &amp; more. 
    Lets go! I wanna see the new tweeter end zone dance
" I cant dance, speak creole or eat spicy food so where do we go from here please?"
finna go HARD to footloose at the next mormon dance you cant STOP me
DMC  Dance Mixes 229 
"""Thou shalt do the dance."""
"It aint even that deep over a damn dance, somebody tell lil mama pipe down. "
Proof The Fresh Prince can dance to any Arabic Song 
"Always ship myself having 1 kid but Im like, whos going to teach my child all the new dances if they dont have a "
mitch marner on the dance floor 
Everyone should know the wibble dance~
"I actually have not tried the Floss Dance 
I'm afraid I may find out I'm not that coordinated  "
My future honey better be ready for spontaneous dance battles
 I did in middle school. Won a dance contest against some DJ 
"Friday April 19th at Keshet Center for the PerformingArts

*Online ticket sales are closed but can be purchased a "
"Yall love hyping up Keke Palmer, yea she the shit but she cannot dance lmao"
"I was just reminded of how awesome Dance Dance Immolation was, and I still wish someone actually made it a permanent experience somewhere."
"Come and see EazyCece's LIVE in BIGOLIVE: dance Hey  come have fun!  
 "
why did we all collectively go wild for dance movies in the noughties tho
"   If you want to try and impeach him with less than a year left in his term, that's on "
 ...but the bird-of-paradise outshone everyone...loved how the goggles boxers all copied the dance... 
Kranium - Last Night [Dance Video] 
"    lol id hope not, those dance moves are weak."
"Begin the weekend with Atomic Sherpas tonight! This Los Angeles band combines funk, blues, jazz, and psychedelic ro "
"So in brief:

This was one of the best days I've had in maybe forever. I got to dance, play very little games in co "
"At my wedding reception, my gift to my future wife will be a surprise lipsync performance of Love on Top that shuts "
 Let's DANCE baby
   We british do not....dance
mysticpete ecstaticdancela 420 soundmeditation Dance Saturday! Im leading the closing sound bath. 
  Show us the order then lets do a smelly echo warrior dance with the rozzers protest round the snowflakes house.
I just wanna drink and dance 
 Did you dance all night
 That was a good dance. Sexy but good! Hahaha.
Staying warm with some horrible dance moves  
"Now Playing on FunX Dance : Flames &amp;40;Leandro Da Silva Remix&amp;41;
 - David Guetta Ft. Sia
 "
Check Out Bling Dawg and Kreecha New Video - Kreech Dance  reggaemusic dancehall JSO dancehalllink reggae
TONIGHT IM GONNA DANCE FOR YOU 
I just want to dance to bizarre love triangle ok?
" I hope she stays up for days, correcting one beat to a Dance step."
"Second grade  put on a fabulous, original take on Little Red Riding Hood today! Loved it, other than t "
 Can I have the next dance lol
Cant remember any of these flash cards so Im hoping this test asks me to recite the Peter Panda Dance. Fingers Crossed 
   Wouldn't be more productive to dance?
 Im out with family in my home country eating drinking and watching them dance
In tears so good true true queen beyonce icon legend performer behind the scenes sick! A must see  
"Write your way through it
Sing your way through it
Dance your way through it
Draw your way through it
Paint your wa "
my dance contest is tomorrow ahhshsjsbsb
 Exactly and even if they did start it who gives a fuck. Its a damn dance 
"must be nice to do an old school dance with your sister 

&amp; snapfadakids &gt;&gt;&gt; 
as Aunties  "
"Join me Saturday night for a special April Birthday celebration with Professional Dance Performances, FREE Snacks, "
 I got enticed by their exciting dance moves. Where should I start to get maximum enjoyment??
"   I dont think anyone has, hes tried more formations than a dance instructor"
"Favorited ""Msd.Remixes ... Club Dance Mission Vol.103""  by Msd.Remixes / Michail.D"
 I want Fauxcahontas to do a rain dance wearing a dunce cap.
ive just chased molli to the dance floor
